Russian spy Sergei Skripal: How nerve agents can destroy the body in minutes Updated March 09, 2018 00:36:27 UK police announced they believe a nerve agent was used to deliberately poison a former Russian double agent and his daughter. Nerve agents have been used in chemical warfare since WWII and have been linked to a number of high-profile assassinations, including in the case of North Korean ruler Kim Jong-un's exiled half brother last year, who died 20 minutes after being given a highly toxic VX nerve agent. Here's the effect they have on the body and whether it's possible to recover from a nerve agent attack. What are nerve agents? Nerve agents are highly poisonous chemicals that work by disrupting and preventing the nervous system from working properly, according to the US Centre for Disease Control. They do this by inhibiting the enzyme which orders the muscle or organ to relax, meaning the muscle is repeatedly receiving a signal to contract. While they are commonly referred to as nerve gases, in pure form they are colourless — and mostly odourless — liquids. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons says they are easily dispersed, highly toxic and have rapid effects when absorbed through the skin or through the respiratory system. G series agents are known as non-persistent (degrade easily), while V series agents are persistent, meaning they do not degrade or wash away easily and are considered among the most toxic substances ever synthesised. There are four main types of nerve agents, including G and V series: How are they administered? Video: What the scene of a suspected hit on a former Russian spy looks like (ABC News) Nerve agents — either as a gas, aerosol or liquid — can be inhaled, absorbed through the skin or ingested (through contaminated food or liquid). Targeting the respiratory system is usually the fastest way to poison someone, with nerve agents administered taking longer to reach the central nervous system. For example, VX is a persistent nerve agent usually absorbed through the skin, but can also be ingested. It does not wash away easily and can remain on clothes and surfaces for long periods, which poses a risk to first responders who may also come into contact with the poison. What effect do they have on the body? People exposed to nerve agents can find it increasingly hard to breathe. Even brief exposure can kill you within minutes. They usually affect muscles and the central nervous system, particularly respiratory muscles, which is what causes people to die. A person exposed to a nerve agent would suffer poisoning and experience the following symptoms: Why are nerve agents a weapon of choice? One of the reasons why nerve agents, such as VX, may be used in assassinations is because they are persistent. Senior lecturer of Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry at Charles Darwin University Martin Boland writes this means they can be used in relatively confined spaces, such as an airport terminal, with less risk of obvious adverse effects on bystanders or the perpetrators. The victim needs to be treated almost as soon as they are exposed to prevent long-term damage, and nerve agents can be administered fairly easily and in public without sparking too much attention As well as being used in the attempted murder of Sergei Skripal, nerve agents were also used to kill Kim Jong-nam in Malaysia and in the assassination of a suspected traitor to Aum Shinrikyo, a Japanese cult. Britain has also drawn parallels between the Skripal case and the poisoning of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, who was killed with radioactive polonium-210 in London in 2006. Photo: From his deathbed in 2006, Alexander Litvinenko (R) accused Vladimir Putin of directly ordering his killing. (Reuters) How are they made? The process to manufacture nerve agents involves fairly straightforward chemical techniques, but they are usually made in labs given how lethal the substance can be. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons says the "raw materials are inexpensive and generally readily available", with the same types of compounds used in insecticides. Can you recover from a nerve agent attack? There are antidotes, but the likelihood of recovery depends on how quickly a person is able to access it. The armed forces in a number of countries usually have access to auto-injectors containing antidotes to nerve agents. Topics: science-and-technology, murder-and-manslaughter, brain-and-nervous-system, health, united-kingdom, russian-federation First posted March 08, 2018 14:35:35
Takata: Victim's father warns Australians to check for faulty airbags Updated March 01, 2018 10:37:55 Video: Victim's father urges drivers to check for faulty airbags (The World) The father of a Takata victim has urged Australians not to be complacent and proactively check whether their vehicles are involved in the recall after losing his daughter due to a defective air bag. Alexander Brangman's daughter, Jewel, died in 2014 when shrapnel from a faulty airbag in the rental car she was driving exploded and punctured her carotid artery during a car accident in California. "One of her last words were 'I love my life, Dad and I'll see you on the 15th', obviously that day never happened, due to blatant incompetence and unconscionable unethical behaviour," Mr Brangman told the ABC's The World program. "I think it's an unethical corporate problem in making poor decisions basing profit over lives." The Federal Government on Wednesday announced a new, compulsory recall of vehicles fitted with defective Takata airbags, which will affect 2.7 million cars. The airbags have been associated with 20 deaths globally, including one death in Australia last year and Ms Brangman's tragedy in the United States. Mr Brangman has since become an advocate for consumer rights, and says the lack of awareness is blatant. "You would be surprised how many people still currently, with this being the largest recall in [automotive] history … are unaware of this and don't know what to do," he said. "First of all you have to challenge and ask manufacturers if you're purchasing cars, or whomever you're getting the cars from, are there any recalls on it?" Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) chairman Rod Sims said the recall — the biggest in Australia's history — must be done by December 31, 2020. The recall will be staggered according to urgency, with priority being given to Alpha airbags which are classified as "critical". The ACCC recommends car owners do not drive their vehicles if they have Alpha airbags. They should instead contact the manufacturer, who would come to collect the cars. Spokesman for consumer body Choice, Tom Godfrey, said there was almost a one-in-two chance an Alpha airbag would fire shrapnel when deployed. And Ms Brangman's case proves it doesn't take a huge accident to trigger an explosion. "It was a fender bender. It's questionable that the airbag should have even gone off," Mr Brangman said. "[It was] very low damage, and impact … my lawyers were shocked and astonished that the airbag went off in the cabin of the car." Mr Brangman firmly believes the death of his daughter, who he describes as an accomplished and honourable young woman, was preventable. "She was aesthetically beautiful, but even more beautiful inside," he said. "This was an incredibly close relationship that was taken from me, I had her 26 years, 11 months, about 15 minutes and quite frankly I was devastated. "But in her name and her honour, and the kind of person that she was, I wanted to spread awareness and immortalise her and let the world know what was lost and who she was." Topics: road-transport, consumer-protection, safety, government-and-politics First posted March 01, 2018 06:02:46
As with so many other #MeToo moments, it began with a tweet. On Jan. 31, supermodel Kate Upton wrote, “It’s disappointing that such an iconic women’s brand @Guess is still empowering Paul Marciano as their creative director #metoo.” In an interview with TIME, Upton detailed her claims against Marciano, co-founder and former CEO of Guess, who she says assaulted and began harassing her during her first professional modeling campaign when she was 18. Harassment has plagued the fashion industry for decades, but allegations have often been ignored. Many models work as independent contractors and have few legal protections; last month lawmakers introduced a bill in New York that would hold designers, retailers and agencies accountable for abuses. In a statement to TIME, Marciano called Upton’s accusations “absolutely false” and “preposterous.” “I have never been alone with Kate Upton,” he said. “I have never touched her inappropriately. Nor would I ever refer to a Guess model in such a derogatory manner.” He added: “I fully support the #metoo movement. At the same time, I will not allow others to defame me and tarnish my reputation. I have pledged to Guess and its Board of Directors my full support and cooperation with a fair and impartial investigation.” A representative from Guess declined to comment. Photographer Yu Tsai says he witnessed the harassment Upton describes and corroborated details of her allegations. TIME: What happened with Paul Marciano? Kate Upton: After the first day of shooting the Guess Lingerie campaign [on July 25, 2010], Paul Marciano said he wanted to meet with me. As soon as I walked in with photographer Yu Tsai, Paul came straight up to me, forcibly grabbed my breasts and started feeling them — playing with them actually. After I pushed him away, he said, “I’m making sure they’re real.” Despite doing everything I could physically do to avoid his touch throughout the meeting, he continued to touch me in a very dominating and aggressive way, grabbing my thighs, my arms to pull me closer, my shoulders to pull me closer, my neck, my breasts, and smelling me. He then told Yu Tsai to leave us alone. I was able to send a quick text to Yu Tsai asking him to stay. He did, but that did not stop Paul’s constant grabbing. I was extremely shaken, surprised and scared. At one point he forcibly grabbed the back of my head so that I could not move and started kissing my face and my neck. I remember not wanting to say “Get off of me” because I didn’t want to open my mouth to say anything because I didn’t want him to be able to put his tongue in my mouth. I had two options: do everything I could to wiggle away and avoid his pursuit, or punch the CEO of Guess. So I decided to just wiggle away. Then Paul insisted that he walk me up to my hotel room. I immediately declined. The only thing I was thinking is if he touches me like that in public, I can’t imagine what he’d try to do in private. Thankfully, Yu Tsai stepped in and insisted he’d do it. I was so relieved and felt like I had barely escaped. The next Guess shoot I worked on was about a month later. As soon as I went up to my hotel room, Paul started calling me asking to come up and see how my room is. I politely declined several times. He continued to insist. He said he was already in the hotel lobby. He even called my room from the hotel lobby desk. After several denials, I just turned off my phone and locked the door and tried to get some sleep. I was terrified. All I could think was if he was able to get into my room it would not be good. The next day, I learned that I had been fired from the shoot. Someone had called my agency to say I had gotten fat and would not be needed on set [that day]. I was devastated, especially because at this point no one from Guess had even seen me. But Guess continued asking you to work with them after that. I talked to Yu Tsai about how scared I was and said I couldn’t do it anymore. I couldn’t shoot anymore if this was how it was going to work. We came up with a plan that anytime Paul invites himself to my room, I would text Yu Tsai to be there so that I was never alone in a room with him. I was still very nervous and scared because clearly Paul was comfortable with touching me in front of him. But Yu Tsai assured me that he would look out for me, so that’s what we did. After that, Paul was reaching out to me constantly, always in communication about my next shoot. But I wouldn’t officially be booked until a few days before the actual shoot. It made me feel that if I cut off communication with him, I wouldn’t be booked again. Paul’s texting increased, telling me how excited he was to see me, that he wanted me to change in front of him so he could see my naked body getting into his clothes. He asked if I thought of him when I was posing sexy on set. All the language he used was extremely dominant and possessive. At one point, to avoid Paul coming to set, I told him my boyfriend was going to be there. He was absolutely furious at that. It was an emotional and non-stop battle of games, power struggles and creative avoidance tactics. Then in what seemed to be retaliation, Yu Tsai was fired from the next shoot, which was Guess Jeans [between Sept. 30 and Oct. 2, 2010]. That’s when I worked with the photographer Ellen von Unwerth. Paul’s behaviors became much more aggressive without Yu Tsai there as a buffer. My denials to Paul had to be much more direct. Then I was told the morning of the shoot I was not needed on set and was fired again. I believe that Ellen insisted that I come anyway. Ellen and I rode together on the way back to the hotel. I remember her asking me if I was friends with Paul because he seemed to really like me. I wasn’t sure how much was safe to reveal, so I told her that I appreciated the opportunities Paul had given me to be a part of his campaign, but I think that maybe he liked me a little too much. When we arrived at the hotel, Paul came right up to me, grabbed me hard by my arm and insisted he was taking me to dinner, just him and I, to celebrate the campaign. Ellen picked up on this, literally grabbed my other arm, and invited herself by saying she was so excited to celebrate the campaign with us. Paul told her she was not invited to dinner, and I felt like she saved me by pulling me away from him and jokingly walking me to the elevator, saying, “Well if I’m not going, Kate’s not going.” I have always been so grateful to Ellen for doing that. [A representative for von Unwerth said she supported Upton but did not recall the particular incident.] After that he was extremely upset. I had a final shoot [in May of 2011], and he was outwardly rude and degrading the entire time. He said I was “disgusting” and started telling people how unprofessional I was by spreading rumors that I was drunk on set and partying every night, which of course I wasn’t. I was then told to leave because Paul had said, “Get that fat pig off my set.” What happened after you stopped working with Guess in 2011? I went on to be extremely successful because of my Sports Illustrated cover. Guess Jeans reached out to my agency and offered me their campaign again in 2012. Typically, Guess pays well below industry standards since they like to say they like to launch young models’ careers. But for this campaign, they offered me $400,000, which at the time was their highest paying offer ever. I remember I had an internal struggle over this offer. I was hoping after my consistent denials and successful career, that Paul would treat me with professionalism. But as we got closer to the shoot date, Paul began texting that he would make sure to be on set. He told me that I wasn’t allowed to bring my boyfriend. I just couldn’t do it. I refused the campaign. I couldn’t accept the money. I walked away about a week before the shoot was scheduled. How did the experience impact you? It took a huge toll on my confidence and self-worth. I wanted to quit modeling. I constantly blamed myself after it happened: What am I doing to invite someone to treat me like that or grab me like that? I wondered if it was how I was presenting myself or what I was wearing. I started slumping my shoulders to hide my breast size, wearing baggy clothes, started despising my own body. Over time, you minimize and internalize your experiences. You chalk it up to, “This is how it is.” And you go through this gut-wrenching struggle of, “How much of myself am I required to sacrifice?” I got through it because of the strong support of my family and close friends. I’m sick of being silenced and expected to sweep everything under the rug. I’m sick of being expected to laugh off these aggressive advances and accept the power imbalances that exist. I’m sick of being expected to endure all of this while being polite and professional through it all. Paul used his power to make me feel insecure and powerless, but I’m not going to let him intimidate me anymore. These men think they are untouchable, but times are changing. On a fashion shoot, is it clear how you can report abuse? No, not at all. You have no idea who to tell. And you’re constantly told about the models who are O.K. with this behavior and how successful they are. So you’re pressured to be O.K. with it. What needs to change about the industry to prevent these abuses of power? The culture of complacency and tolerance in our industry needs to stop. People know what is going on and have previously accepted it. And we can’t always require the victims to be the ones to speak up and tell their story because the victims only know their one story. The people around in the corporate offices or around the harassers every day know of every time they do this. They’re the ones who need to speak out. Also, right now, everyone around models is incentivized to tell them not to ruffle any feathers. If the models don’t get paid, the agencies and managers and everyone around them doesn’t get their cut. Agencies need to be stronger when they hear these stories. They’re saying, “Oh, Kate’s not O.K. with this” and bringing in the next model. The next model needs to know why I’m not O.K. with this. The response from some [to this movement] has been, “It’s not that bad” or “other men are much worse than him” or “at least it wasn’t rape.” Those are unacceptable statements. That’s our only line? At least he didn’t rape her? That’s a scary office to be in. We shouldn’t have to take a step back to a time when women weren’t invited to networking events or one-on-one meetings. I don’t want an environment where women can only work with women or vice versa. Good men do exist. I’m very lucky to know that because of my wonderful husband and father and brother. But we need to make sure we’re hiring men with respect for women — not their bodies, but their minds and professionalism. Some harassers in fashion have defended themselves by saying that the lines are blurred when you’re shooting a sexy photo. Honestly, fashion is not any different from any industry. When I come on set, I’m very professional, everyone around me is very professional. Not even stylists touch my body without my consent. They ask me before they do. Nobody has a right over my body just because they view me as sexy or a sex icon. I think people need to be educated on the definition of consent. I don’t think there are any blurred lines in this. I don’t think you should be touching people at the workplace, and I don’t think you should be sexually speaking to a model as they’re doing their profession. I’m not thinking of any man while I’m on a shoot. The reason I’m there and the reason I’m feeling sexy is because I’m empowering myself. This is my body and my workplace. I am just doing my job.
Women living with prolapse — the horrific impact of traumatic birth and exercise Updated March 01, 2018 15:41:29 It's like secret women's business that few women know or want to talk about until it's too late. Prolapse — it is a deeply personal horror story I'm living with along with many others, and I wish I had known more about it earlier. I feel like I have lost my freedom to do so many things. After childbirth, the pressure to get your pre-baby body back is intense. But the desire and need for strong bodies can be fraught with pitfalls, if you don't realise the damage done from childbirth. According to the Continence Foundation of Australia (CFA), half of all women over the age of 50 who have given birth have some level of prolapse. That is when the ligaments are stretched or there is trauma to the muscles which allows the bladder, uterus and or bowel to effectively slip down and either protrude into the vagina or press against the wall of the vagina. Described as a silent epidemic, the CFA said one in five Australian women required medical help for prolapse in their lifetime. It is an issue that also impacts many younger women resulting in bladder or bowel incontinence. It can cause an awful dragging feeling that your innards are falling down, and result in a range of urinary, bowel, and sexual problems. Three births, forceps and over zealous exercise I had my first daughter which required a rotation with forceps, 26 years ago. I went on to have another two children in close succession and my body was never the same. Photo: ABC journalist Andree Withey is a mother of three and has a bladder and bowel prolapse and a partial levator avulsion. (ABC News: Patrick Williams) About 20 per cent of women who have a vaginal delivery will suffer a levator avulsion, which is when the pelvic floor muscle is torn from the pubic bone. But those figures double if you require forceps, and if you're a first time mother over the age of 35, you have the same chance of a levator avulsion even without forceps. My physiotherapist is giving me lots of help and support as I learn to cope with my diagnoses of both a bladder and bowel prolapse and a partial levator avulsion. I plot my walks and much of what I do during the day around where I can find a toilet. I also fear it will impact my ability to work as a journalist, because out on a job you're not always able to access a toilet. It feels like a kick in the guts because I've already hiked 500 kilometres through Spain and Portugal and I have so many more places I want to go with my backpack. Finding a toilet in a third world country is hard enough but with incontinence it will be so much more tricky. It can't be repaired The shocking thing about a levator avulsion is it can't be repaired at this stage. Australian researchers recently announced a new experimental treatment, which uses stem cells from a woman's womb combined with nano-biomaterials to repair tissues damaged after childbirth. The new approach has been tested on sheep but is yet to be clinically trialled. Professor Hans Peter Dietz from the Sydney Medical School Nepean Hospital is a world leader in the field and is conducting research trials into the issue, with help from six PhD students as well as some overseas collaboration. The trials have involved about 240 women with avulsion. "It is possible but there are still engineering and technical issue to resolve." While the research has sparked great excitement for the women living with prolapse, the wait continues. Brisbane mother Amy Dawes eased herself back into exercise after giving birth. But after a run and a yoga session she said something didn't feel right. "I could feel my bladder where I shouldn't be able to feel it," she said. Ms Dawes has a similar problem to me, but she has a bilateral or total levator avulsion. Photo: Corrine is trying to avoid a prolapse after being diagnosed with a levator avulsion. (ABC News: Andree Withey) Brisbane cafe owner Corrine is trying to avoid a prolapse after being diagnosed with a levator avulsion after giving birth to two babies each weighing 4.3 kilograms. "I used to do a lot of dead lifts and squats to keep fit but I now avoid those sort of things so I now do a lot of water aerobics, pilates, yoga and walking," she said. "I have girlfriends who have had babies and they have the same thing. It's almost par for the course. One friend is due to have repair surgery and another has a pessary." While Ms Dawes is waiting for a breakthrough, she has co-founded the Australasian Birth Trauma Association offering emotional and practical support to women and their partners who have been traumatised by a difficult birth experience. Exercises to be wary of if you have pelvic issues Ms Croft said it was about encouraging women to keep exercising while not compromising their pelvic floor. Photo: Brisbane women's health physiotherapist Sue Croft says women need to be conscious of their pelvic floor. (ABC News: Andree Withey) "If you go and do just any old thing you are at risk of making prolapse or incontinence worse," she said. "It's important — particularly after childbirth — to get your pelvic floor assessed so you can learn what damage if any has been done and what exercises are suitable." Guidelines if you have pelvic floor dysfunction (keeping in mind bodies will respond differently): Mesh implant disaster Pessaries are a silicone device inserted into the vagina to help provide structure and support while living with a prolapse. They are now the go-to device to help women with prolapse after vaginal mesh implants were banned in Australia. The mesh implants left hundreds of women with chronic, debilitating pain and recurring infections. A class action against mesh manufacturer Johnson and Johnson involving more than 700 women is underway, with legal representatives for the women claiming the pharmaceutical giant did not investigate proper clinical trials on the possible complications of the mesh. The Continence Foundation of Australia will hold its fifth state conference in Brisbane on March 9 with the diagnoses of Levator Avulsion being top on the agenda. Topics: health, womens-health, reproduction-and-contraception, medical-procedures, human-interest, people, brisbane-4000, qld First posted March 01, 2018 06:02:46
'Lonely' former Labor Senator Joe Bullock switches from red to blue Posted May 31, 2018 00:00:13 Former Labor Senator — and right-wing union powerbroker — Joe Bullock has switched from red to blue, joining the Liberal Party after 39 years in the ALP. The West Australian has also swapped states, moving to the northern Tasmanian city of Launceston, where he has become a paid up member of the Liberals. A member of the conservative Baptist Church, Mr Bullock told the ABC he felt "isolated and lonely" inside the Labor Party and again pointed to its position on same-sex marriage as the main source of his discomfort. Mr Bullock said while he had no intention of running for Parliament again, he has always maintained a strong interest in politics and wanted to stay involved, but this time with the Liberal Party. Mr Bullock has always been a divisive figure and was, famously, the only member at the ALP's 2015 National Conference to oppose a bid to make it compulsory for MPs to support gay marriage from 2019. The party adopted the policy and Mr Bullock felt so uncomfortable he made the shock decision to resign from the Senate in 2016, less than two years into his six-year term. At the time, he told the Senate he could not ask voters to support a party "which is determined to deny its parliamentarians a conscience vote on the homosexual marriage question". "A question which I regard as having fundamental significance to the future shape of our society," he said at the time. Bullock's Liberal ties date back to the 70s Before entering politics, Mr Bullock controlled the powerful right-wing "Shoppies" retail union in Western Australia and used his influence to block Sunday retail trading under successive Labor state governments. Despite his years of service to Labor and the union movement, Mr Bullock's ties to the Liberal Party go back even further. While studying at the University of Sydney in the 1970s, Mr Bullock joined the Liberal Club and was apparently responsible for recruiting future prime minister Tony Abbott, and encouraging him to stick with the party. He would later keep a framed Liberal Club poster on his Senate office wall from the university's 1977 student elections, telling students to vote "1 — Tony Abbott" for the Presidency and "1 — Joe Bullock" for editor of the student paper. The controversial Senator also crossed paths with future Liberal Minister Eric Abetz during his student politics days, and the pair has remained close ever since. Topics: liberals, political-parties, government-and-politics, alp, australia
'Siberia is indeed a land of superlatives: bigger than Europe and the US combined, with the biggest gas reserves in the world' Haunting image of the holy man - who exerted an extraordinary hold on the Russian royals - has never been seen before. His critics saw him as a charlatan who discredited the Russian royals and help predicate the Russian Revolution. Picture: The Siberian Times The ghostly picture was shown during a special exhibition of 'masterpieces' at the Yaroslavsky Museum of History and Culture of People of the North, Yakutsk. Collector and owner Alexey Ivanov, a renowned culture expert in Yakutia, said: 'The picture was taken between 1880-1900. 'This is the earliest period of the young priest's life. 'It is quite likely to be his first photograph.' The ghostly picture was shown during a special exhibition of 'masterpieces' at the Yaroslavsky Museum of History and Culture of People of the North, Yakutsk. Pictures: Yaroslavsky Museum of History and Culture of People of the North While the exact date is not known, it is from before the time that the charismatic monk arrived in then capital St Petersburg in 1903, changing the course of Russian history. Red marks on the pictures show the way experts compared the image with others of Rasputin to verify its authenticity. Rasputin was from a peasant family in the Siberian village of Pokrovskoye, in Tyumen region, more than 3,000 kilometres west of Yakutsk. Grigory Rasputin with Romanov family. Pictures: The Siberian Times Once in St Petersburg he became a society figure and captivated the royals, especially Tsarina Alexandra, who viewed him as a healer, and hoped he could save crown prince Alexei, her son, who suffered from haemophilia. His critics saw him as a charlatan who discredited the Russian royals and helped predicate the Russian Revolution. He was assassinated by a group of noblemen in 1916 who were concerned at the sway he held over the tsarina. This book is the most complete factual history of Rasputin's life I have found. It is a must read for anybody interested in Rasputin. Rasputin: Faith, Power, and the Twilight of the Romanovs by Doug Smith 2017 Thanks for sharing this. I have tried to learn all I can about Rasputin, for many years. I have been in the courtyard of his last apartment and to his (symbolic only) grave site in Alexander park, Pushkin. Fake! That last photo was photoshopped. Rasputin never posed with the Imperial Family. There is only one photo of him with the Empress and the children shortly after he arrived in St. Petersburg. This photo in your story is shameful. We welcome a healthy debate, but do not accept offensive or abusive comments. Please also read 'Siberian Times' Privacy Policy The views expressed in the comments above are those of our readers. 'Siberian Times' reserves the right to pre-moderate some comments. Andrey Medvedev, 20, and Alexander Grunenko, 15, met the fearsome beast when they were collecting wild garlic in Kemerovo region. Spectacular sandstorm hits Tyumen as high winds uproot trees, blow over bus shelters, and damage cars. Driver escapes cabin in nick of time before crane is ignominiously upended, its jib crashing on boat. Spectacular ice show attracts mesmerised crowds of onlookers in Surgut as world’s 7th longest river defies spring. Haunting image of the holy man - who exerted an extraordinary hold on the Russian royals - has never been seen before. Thick ice and heavy spring floods combines to cause severe flooding in Yakutia. Gelandewagen parade videos leads to 'career change' as Russia demands highest standards from secret servicemen. Probes taken by South Korean experts will reveal lifestyle of this Arctic boy from 800 years ago. Locals undress to impress at resorts across four time zones. Scientists make crucial new discoveries of bacteria, up to 30 million years old.
Looking out at her quaint Alabama backyard in late January, Charlie Stephenson noticed something unusual. A strange species of unfamiliar yellow bird was pecking at her hanging birdfeeder. As a seasoned birdwatcher, Stephenson had seen scores of cardinals in the past. But with its mustard-color coat, this flier was different. So, she took a photo with her iPhone and posted it on Facebook. Stephenson told AL.com she has seen albino and leucistic birds, the latter being animals that are mostly white but can produce some pigment. (Related: "Why Yellow Birds Mysteriously Turn Red.") But this golden visitor is neither: it's a male northern cardinal with a "one in a million" genetic mutation that made its red feathers yellow, according to Geoffrey Hill, a bird curator at Auburn University in Alabama. The unusually yellow cardinal is not to be confused with the yellow cardinal, an endangered South American species with black and white markings and the occasional green tinge. (Related: "Extremely Rare Albino Orangutan Found in Indonesia.") Black could only manage two or three shots before a squirrel startled the bird and it flitted away again. He's been trying to get more photos ever since, visiting her yard daily for the last week or so. Songbirds get their color from yellow, orange, and red pigments called carotenoids found in their food, like sweet potatoes and carrots. Although wild songbirds typically eat yellow-pigmented foods, they can transform that color into warm, red feathers. (Related: "Why These Giraffes Are Completely White.") Genetics might not be the only thing to blame for this odd-looking cardinal. The bird's discoloration could also be a sign of illness, Geoff LeBaron, Christmas bird Director at the National Audubon Society, said on the organization's website. LeBaron points out that the bird's crest and wing feathers are rather worse for wear, a possible indication of a poor diet or stressful environment—factors that may be preventing the bird from boasting its true, vibrant red hue. (Related: "Why This Swedish Moose is Entirely White.") If the same yellow bird is seen in Alabaster next winter, then it likely has a genetic mutation, he says. DNA analysis could definitively solve this color-confused mystery, though there are no plans to capture the animal. (Related: "How Color-Changing Animals Are Rebelling Against Climate Change.")
"We have been watching these traitors for two years and have brought the leading figures of FETO to our country. Some of these were covered by press while some others weren't at the request of some countries. I could frankly say that more than 100 of FETO affiliates have been brought to Turkey," Cavusoglu said in an interview with the CNN Turk on Sunday evening. On Sunday, Turkey marked the second anniversary of the defeated coup, orchestrated by the FETO, that left 251 people martyred and nearly 2,200 others injured. Cavusoglu said that the coup attempt would never be forgotten and the traitors would pay for what they did no matter where they are.
The Oscars haven't even happened yet, but the studio that gave us two awards season giants — The Shape of Water and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri — is already looking to the future. Variety reports that Fox Searchlight, along with producer DeVon Franklin, are working on a new project called "Flamin' Hot" — the true story of Flamin' Hot Cheetos inventor, Richard Montanez. The outlet reported that the film will move through the businessman's inspiring path, starting out as a migrant farm worker in Southern California and moving into his role as a janitor at Frito-Lay, where his inspiration for Flamin' Hot Cheetos was born and catapulted him into becoming the "Godfather of Multicultural Marketing." All jokes aside, it sounds like Montanez has a truly amazing story, but with a project title like "Flamin' Hot," I'm bound to have some questions, starting with "Is this real?" (Yes, it sounds like this movie really, truly is a go.) With that in mind, here are 19 other questions I have about this very real movie: 1. Will they be making limited edition Flamin' Hot Popcorn? 2. And will they develop a partnership with Wet Wipes? 3. Does the person behind Sriracha have an interesting story too? 4. Is Disney currently acquiring the rights to that story, so that we can have a proper box office face-off? 5. Is this going to be like The Founder, but with Cheetos? 6. How many "flamin' hot" jokes will there be? 7. Will Chester the Cheetah be involved in the story at all? 8. If yes, will he be more of a Ryan Reynolds, or a David Spade? 9. Will Oscar Isaac be involved? Please say yes. 10. Can Katy Perry sing the theme song? 11. Who could possibly play Montanez? Seriously, there are stunningly few mainstream Mexican actors to choose from. Google it. 12. Is this movie only happening so that parents feel better about buying the nutritionally-challenged snack for their Flamin' Hot-obsessed kids? 13. Will the movie address the Flamin' Hot bans of 2006? 14. And also of 2012? 15. And are they going to portray the bans like stock market crashes? 16. Hey, is this going to be like The Big Short? 17. But with Bella Hadid in a tub full of Flamin' Hot Cheetos instead Margot Robbie in a bubble bath? 18. Am I sensing an Oscar contender? 19. Are Flamin' Hot Cheetos going to be the thing that brings our divided nation together? I mean, we all agree that this is genius, right?
I was fortunate enough to personally meet Guy Kawasaki, best-selling author, empowering speaker, and all-around entrepreneurship evangelist, at SXSW 2017. If anybody has the inside scoop on how to get a startup off the ground, it’s him. Here are three important things I learned from speaking with Guy, which I bet can help you on your startup journey: #1 Focus on your prototype, not your pitch You’ve met them at startup cons and bootcamps. Maybe you are one yourself. You know who I’m talking about — those guys who obsess over their pitch, who are so concerned with getting it pitch perfect (pardon the pun) that they lose sight of what’s really important. Unless you’re in the business of creating pitches, a PowerPoint show or an Excel sheet won’t help you as an entrepreneur. The only thing that needs your full attention — that should be perfect — is your prototype. Get your product right, get it out there, and make sure people are using it. #2 Forget about your business plan, just create a product you’d want to use Some of the biggest companies out there, like Facebook or Airbnb, didn’t feel the need to spend countless hours (not to mention dollars) doing market research or business plans before they started. And you shouldn’t need to either. Chances are it will be outdated before you finish it, anyway. Your guiding principle should be to build a product that you would want to use. It’s as simple as that. That’s not a guarantee of success, but neither is a ton of market research. Just get out there and do it. If it succeeds, great! If not, take your real-world experience and try again. #3 Don’t make your startup all about fundraising and befriending VCs It’s so easy to get stuck on the fundraising treadmill and wear yourself out trying to woo reluctant investors, or meeting with VCs who don’t get excited about your product. What they care about is making money, and so should you. Make sure you’re working on sales, because even if you’ve got a great product, if you haven’t figured out how you’re going to sell it, you’re not going to get very far. And last but not least, according to Kawasaki, timing is everything. And part of that is just luck. But remember: preparation + opportunity = luck. In other words, we make our own luck! This post is part of our contributor series. The views expressed are the author's own and not necessarily shared by TNW. Read next: Bring home design plans to life with this 3D app that’s just $24.99
It's funny how some online viral content can pass you by. We tend to think that absolutely everybody just has to have seen the latest meme, that tweet from Kanye West on slavery or Trump, or that video by some semi-famous comedian-come-musician on black history. After all, that's what viral is – an itch that spreads indiscriminately. But as with any biological virus, online virals can indeed pass you by if you're sufficiently inoculated. So it was with a viral music video by Donald Glover – aka Childish Gambino – called "This is America." I spotted it purely by chance. My interest in Glover was piqued after watching an episode of his 2015 comedy-drama "Atlanta." I typed Donald Glover, got "This is America," and a load of other results on what the video actually means. This is America stormed the net on its May 10 release — most probably not for the music, which is drab, but for the message. There are heaps of articles explaining the socio-historical-political-black/white-confederate-Jim-Crow-racist-violence-Mental-Health-African-dance references that an ignorant viewer such as me would have otherwise missed. If this is America today, black Americans have got a lot of problems. And, yes, I missed them all. But the good thing is it got me thinking again about black scientists in America. Of a fire in science Black scientists have been on my mind since last autumn when I (finally) started reading Pulitzer Prize-winning author Norman Mailer's "Of a Fire on the Moon." The book is a collection of Mailer's Life magazine articles on the first Moon landing between 1969 and 1970. It is an incredible, visionary, philosophical look at human endeavor. But buried within its pages is a curious passage that strikes me as rather odd. The extract involves Mailer at a dinner party in Houston, thrown by some art-collecting European friends of his. He gets into a conversation with a young African-American professor, who appears drunk to the writer. "… there was a sense of somebody pickling himself through three days of booze … the heavy taking of the heaviest medicine …" writes Mailer. Mailer puts some of this down to the professor seeming bored with his blond, white, Marilyn Monroe look-a-like of a partner. And there's yet more sexism to come. "But there were other reasons for drinking … America had put two White men on the moon … a triumph of White men was being celebrated in the streets …" Technically, at the time of this scene at the party, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, and their Command Module pilot, Michael Collins, were still on their way to the moon. But that's a mere detail, because Mailer goes on. He says the black professor believes "his people were possessed of a potential genius greater than whites," but that African Americans had a "distaste for numbers not because they were stupid or deprived, but because numbers were abstracted from the senses." " … [A]nd the first heats of the triumph suggested that the fundamental notion of Black superiority might be incorrect … Yesterday, Whitey with his numbers had taken his first step to the stars, taken it ahead of Black men. How that had to burn in the ducts of this Black man's stomach, in the vats of his liver." Read more: 'You could send Congress to space,' says Ted Cruz but, alas, Donald Trump declines It was about at this point that I lost confidence in my ability to understand Mailer's motivation. To this day, I can't tell whether his observations reflect a racist tone of the time, including possibly his own, or that I've misunderstood the America in which it was written. So I've asked around. Yet almost as striking as the extract is the number of people whom I've contacted who have "declined to comment," as we journalists so politely like to put it. Whitey talks For the record, I've requested comment from celebrity astrophysicist Dr. Neil deGrasse Tyson — twice — without joy. He's spoken to us before so it was worth a try. I've asked Professor Melina Abdullah, chair of pan-African studies at California State University and a Black Lives Matter organizer. She passed me on to Dr. Melvin Donaldson, but I never heard back. Mat Kaplan at Planetary Society declined to comment on the record. The Harry Ransom Center, which holds a Norman Mailer archive at the University of Texas at Austin, said it was unable to help. Same goes for the Science History Institute, based in Philadelphia, and the National Air and Space Museum at the Smithsonian Institution. No joy. Although the Smithsonian did pass me onto Dr. Neil Maher at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, so I may yet hear from him. There were one or two other female African-American scientists, but they had sadly passed (in one case at a very young age) or retired. I've tried to track down Dr. George Carruthers (pictured at the top), a black physicist and inventor who developed the first moon-based observatory for the Apollo 16 mission and who is now in his late 70s — I went through NASA communications, the NASA Alumni League, and the Naval Research Laboratory, where Carruthers was employed, but, again, no joy. Tom Spencer-Walters at California State University Northridge was recommended, and he may yet reply. So far, however, it seems only two space scientists are willing to comment. And, while I hope it's not relevant, both are white, or, not of color. To be fair, and in view of the apparent sensitive nature of my enquiry, I'll try to maintain their anonymity. But here's what they said by email. The first comment is from a known, high-ranking astrophysicist based in Arizona: "Interesting excerpt. I've read Mailer but not this book. I think it is casually racist in some ways that were common even among well-educated literati in America at the time. Mailer could be a misogynist, a racist, and a drunken boor, but he also had some great insights into his time and culture — so a mixed bag. And he had a troubled relationship to alcohol, so the drunken reference might even be heroic in his eyes. He clearly presents blacks as apart from the grandest technological achievement of the age." The reference to alcohol struck me as the point. In Australia, a country to which I have strong ties, members of the black indigenous population are still today put down as "drunks" — even in official reports — so as observations go on Mailer's part, it is loaded. The second comment comes from a renowned east coast astronomer: "I read the passage as sympathetic to the black man's frustrations trying to fit into the white man's space science. Indeed I have known people like him. I can't blame him for getting drunk anymore than I can take umbrage at the extraordinary lengths to which minorities need to go to gain recognition. Writing at that time, Mailer was very aware of his country's racist tendencies." With each approach I provided the extract. It was important to me to make clear that my enquiry was not about mudslinging or besmirching Mailer's name and reputation. The point is to understand where we have come from to know where we are going. And in terms of space, America and its Apollo missions is where we're from. But still no joy. Perhaps I should have asked NASA's chief historian, Bill Barry. In fact, I'll do that now. Who got the camera? One of my biggest hopes was to speak to Johnie Scott, a retired professor whose last posting was as chair of the African studies department at California State University Northridge. He, too, may yet reply, but I won't hold my breath and perhaps there's no need to because he said it all 50 years ago. In 1966, Scott was interviewed for a BBC television documentary called "California 2000." It was all about Californian space research, and the computer and robotics industries that would shape our world. Here's part of what Scott told interviewer John Morgan: "What do I look like, living in Watts, in the projects, sitting in a living room that really doesn't have too much of anything, looking at the launching of a missile to orbit a man around space, and … I'll hear a police siren and … I'll go outside and I'll see him going down the street and I'll look away because it's no big thing, this happens every day, and then I can look down a little further and see kids playing around trash cans, because that's all they have … The reality of being poor is in you. And a space race has to be the last thing on your mind. You're too concerned … and the word is 'hustling' … you're too concerned with just trying to make enough to live." Read more: Our first InSight into the interior of Mars There's no way for me to have written this piece without quoting Mailer a little out of context. If you want the full load to make up your own mind, you'll have to read the book, and read plenty more around it. Or try to speak to people in the know, but as I've found so few people are willing to speak on the record. Perhaps I should try talking to Donald Glover. That would make a viral article. But for now the last words must go to Mailer and his unnamed black professor: "You know," said the professor, "there are no black astronauts." "Of course not." "Any Jewish astronauts?" "I doubt it." The black man grunted. They would not need to mention Mexicans or Puerto Ricans … "Look," said the black professor," do they have any awareness of how the money they spent could have been used?" Mailer, who throughout feels a certain WASPishness (WASP = White Anglo-Saxon Protestant), concludes by writing that they, whoever "they" are, have a good argument, and that is that "if you stopped space tomorrow, only a token of the funds would go to poverty." As with Glover's viral video, if I'd never read the extract I would probably have never wondered about racial diversity during the Apollo era of American space flight. It was an important time for the nation and the rest of the world. And it's shaped the world we have today. It's not as if there were no black scientists. So why was the time so white? And why do so few people want to talk about it? *Please get in touch if you have any insight on diversity in space — whether it's historical or contemporary, in America or elsewhere. We'd like to hear from you.
HYDERABAD: Expecting an early election, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has stepped up the party’s public outreach programmes in the city and across the state. The party leadership has taken up various public interactive programmes including paidal daura (campaigning on foot) to renew contact with the people. The party will also conduct public meetings at various places in the city. According to party sources, the AIMIM leadership had planned the interaction programmes following reports of early elections. “Party president Asaduddin Owaisi had months ago indicated an early election. Before Ramzan, several public meetings were held and interaction programmes organised in the city and various districts,” the source said. During the month of Ramzan, party leaders attended the Dawaat-e-Iftar organised at mohalla level even in the districts. Some leaders of the party attended the saher or predawn meal get-togethers. All through the month, the leadership held the Youmul Quran programme at important mosques in the city. In the coming days, the party will also be increasing its presence on social media platforms with a dedicated team being brought in to handle the digital campaigning. The AlMIM has seven legislators in the city. The party contested four Lok Sabha and 21 Assembly seats in Telangana, and one Lok Sabha and 13 Assembly seats in SeemaAndhra region in the last general and assembly elections.
MUMBAI: Budget carrier AirAsia India today added one more A320 aircraft in the fleet, raising its size to 17 and announced the launch of its services to Imphal from New Delhi as well to Delhi and Pune from Bengaluru from early next month. With the latest induction, AirAsia India has added three new aircraft and as many destinations along with eight new routes in the first quarter of the current calendar year, the airline said in a statement. The Tata Sons and Malaysian airliner's group AirAsia-invested AirAsia India is still short of three planes to qualify for launching international operations. Under the existing rules, domestic airlines can fly overseas provided they deploy 20 aircraft or 20 per cent of their capacity in the domestic market, whichever is higher. AirAsia India has inducted one more Airbus A320 plane, which has taken its total fleet size to 17 aircraft, the airline said, adding that it will launch its flight services to Imphal in the North-east from April 7. The Bengaluru-based airline also announced special one-way promotional fares of Rs 4,999 for the New Delhi-Imphal service. Imphal would be AirAsia India's second destination in the country. "The first quarter of 2018 is proving to be an exciting one for us. The new route is currently underserved and the launch of services will enhance connectivity. So far, we have added three aircraft, three new destinations, eight new routes," AirAsia India managing director and chief executive officer Amar Abrol said. "Our ultimate mission is to enhance air connectivity and making air travel a reality to everyone in the country," he added. The bookings for all three new flights are open from today, it said adding the customers can avail fares from as low as Rs 4,999 for New Delhi - Imphal, Rs 1,799 for Pune - Bengaluru and Rs 3,499 for New Delhi - Bengaluru flights.
Airbnb co-founder Nathan Blecharczyk has big plans for its new Airbnb Plus program. On Thursday, Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky announced the program at a media event in San Francisco, pitching it as a more reliable way for booking temporary lodgings that meet the company’s standards. Those homes, which are inspected by Airbnb to make sure they meet certain criteria like cleanliness, will be featured higher in the company’s search rankings, and therefore more visible to users. In an interview with Fortune, Blecharczyk, the company’s chief strategy officer, characterized Airbnb Plus as the company’s most important new feature. “Here’s a set of properties that we actually sent someone to inspect,” he said about the difference between the typical homes people see on Airbnb and the 2,000 homes now featured in the Plus program. To be accepted into the Plus program, homeowners must pay a $149 fee and adhere to a 100-point checklist of criteria like home cleanliness, overall design, and attractiveness. Airbnb has not said whether it would reimburse people who submit their homes for the Plus program, but are rejected. Blecharczyk said that who the inspectors are varies by market, but that many of them have previously worked for the company as photographers. Airbnb uses contract photographers to take professional images of houses for homeowners for a fee if they want more appealing pictures for their listings. Now, Airbnb is going to arm those freelance photographers with checklists to note whether homes meet certain standards, he explained. Airbnb developed the checklist through “customer research” and from what it learned from buying high-end rental company Luxury Retreats a year ago in a deal reportedly worth $300 million. Luxury Retreats had its own criteria for choosing resort villas and expensive retreats, and Airbnb adopted some of that for its Airbnb Plus checklist, Blecharczyk explained. Homeowners accepted into the Airbnb Plus program would receive “premium customer support” that Blecharczyk said would consist of a dedicated customer service team, primarily consisting of outsourced workers. Blecharczyk aims to have 75,000 homes showcased on Airbnb Plus by the end of the year. About Chesky’s comments during the day that Airbnb would eventually debut luxury travel packages, Blecharczyk said the company is still figuring it out. Airbnb could create an online service for choosing the packages like they do with homes, or it could use live staff. While these options are “not something we have talked about or announced,” they’re “certainly within the scope of our longer term vision,” Blecharczyk said. One thing Blecharczyk is adamant about, however, it that while Airbnb may debut features intended to help people create vacation plans, the company doesn’t intend to become an online travel agency. “Our storefront is really about selling what we call ‘magical trips,’” Blecharczyk said. He acknowledged that using the term “magic” to describe Airbnb could sound “funny” to some, but he believes it’s the appropriate word for the kinds of “local, unique, and authentic” stays Airbnb aims to deliver. Finding a place to stay through Airbnb is not simply choosing a temporary roof over one’s head, but involves friendly locals inviting people to their homes and learning about each region’s customs and cultures, he said. As an example, he cites an Airbnb rental he booked in Hawaii, where he bonded with a musician host who knew the Dalai Lama and showed him “his favorite fishing spot in Maui.” Trips like this wouldn’t be possible in more conventional kinds of lodging. Get Data Sheet, Fortune’s technology newsletter. Not everyone is happy about Airbnb’s new Plus program. The American Hotel and Lodging Association sent Fortune a comment about the overhaul, accusing Airbnb of “trying to play in the hoteling space while evading industry regulations. “ The association’s complaint is similar to the taxi industry’s stance on Uber and Lyft operating transportation services without adhering to the same regulations they do.
Amnesty International has condemned a plan by authorities in Indonesia's Aceh province to introduce beheading as a punishment for murder. In a statement on Thursday, Amnesty called on the local government to drop the plan to implement the form of execution. "The Aceh administration cannot use its special autonomous status in order to introduce laws and policies that flagrantly violate human rights," the group's Indonesia executive director Usman Hamid said. "The authorities need to focus on the root causes of crime and informed debates on the death penalty as a human rights violation, and swiftly move to abolish this ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment." According to Aceh's government, the introduction of beheadings for people convicted of murder would deter future killers from committing the crime. The local government said it looked at Saudi Arabia as an example, claiming beheadings there had "effectively reduced the number of murders". Saudi Arabia is currently the only country in the world that still beheads people as a form of execution. Amnesty said the notion that beheadings might stop killings is flawed. "The Aceh administration's argument that beheading could prevent murder is both baseless and unacceptable. There is no evidence that the death penalty has a unique deterrent effect on crime, no matter how shocking the method of execution is," the group said. The human rights organisation called on the central Indonesian government to intervene, adding it should not only oppose the plan, but also put a moratorium on the death penalty throughout the world's most populous Muslim nation. The provincial administration said it would conduct research this year to see if a majority of people in Aceh would support beheading. Aceh, located on the northern part of Sumatra island, is one of the most conservative regions in Indonesia. It is the only province in Indonesia where Islamic law is implemented. Lawbreakers are regularly condemned to public caning, with homosexuals and LGBTQ people often targeted by authorities. According to research done by Human Rights Watch, at least 339 were subjected to caning in 2016 in the province.
FILE- In this Jan. 16, 2018, file photo, the General Electric logo is displayed at the top of their Global Operations Center in the Banks development of downtown Cincinnati. A year after taking over an ailing American conglomerate, CEO John Flannery is calving off larger chunks of General Electric, spinning off its health care business and selling its stake in the oil services company, Baker Hughes. less NEW YORK (AP) — General Electric Co. is shrinking again, becoming a mere shadow of the globe-spanning conglomerate that it was before the Great Recession. GE said Tuesday that it will spin off its health-care business and sell its interest in Baker Hughes, which provides drilling services to oil and gas companies. The moves were announced as GE disappeared from the Dow Jones industrial average for the first time since 1907. They underscored how radically the company has changed in less than a decade. GE traces its roots to Thomas Edison and the invention of the light bulb. The company grew with the American economy. At the start of the global financial crisis in 2008, it was one of the nation's biggest lenders, its appliances were sold by the millions to homeowners around the world, and it oversaw a multinational media powerhouse including NBC television. Since then, the company has been selling assets, with the latest divestitures coming after a yearlong review by CEO John Flannery. "Today marks an important milestone in GE's history," Flannery said. He vowed to give the company more of a high-tech and industrial focus, and to make GE simpler and stronger by focusing on aviation, power and renewable energy — businesses that he said are poised to grow. "We have changed many things, but the essence of GE endures," he said on a conference call with analysts. GE will sell about 20 percent of its health-care business and distribute the rest to its shareholders over the next 12 to 18 months. It will take up to three years to sell its two-thirds stake in Baker Hughes, valued at around $23 billion. The company said the moves will lower its debt by $25 billion and reduce risk. Standard & Poor's warned that it could downgrade GE's credit — already in junk status — by one more notch. S&P analysts said divesting the health-care business would improve GE's balance sheet but leave the less-diversified company vulnerable to more volatility in profits and cash flow. Flannery vowed when he became CEO just over a year ago to divest $20 billion in assets. The company said those sales are essentially complete. GE shares jumped 7 percent, to $13.65, in midday trading. That would be the biggest one-day percentage gain since April 10, 2015. The shares have plunged 60 percent since the start of 2017 despite efforts by Flannery and, before that, Jeffrey Immelt, to reverse the slide. Before Tuesday's rebound, the slump had wiped out more than $160 billion in shareholder value. GE's aviation business has soared on strong demand for jet engines, but its power unit has suffered declining profit, and GE now plans to pump another $3 billion into its GE Capital finance business next year. On Monday, GE said it agreed to sell its gas-engine business for about $3 billion, and it previously agreed to merge its 111-year-old business of building railroad locomotives with Wabtec in a deal to raise $2.9 billion for GE. The company is still trying to sell the lighting business that Edison started. If Flannery's strategy is realized, the company will shrink to four divisions from eight a year ago. GE has already left behind its long history in the Dow Jones industrial average. On Tuesday, drugstore chain Walgreens replaced GE in the stock index of 30 blue-chip companies. GE was an original component in the Dow back in 1896 and had been a continuous member since 1907.
The 23rd annual Turkish-German F ilm F estival began in Nuremberg on Friday without one of its usual backers: the Turkish Culture Ministry. The festival had been funded by both governments for about a decade, its director, Adil Kaya, said in a telephone interview. But the Turkish Culture Ministry informed him that this year it would not fund the event. It was a sign of an increasingly inward-looking Turkey that is “no longer open for cultural dialogues with other countries, especially with Germany,” Mr. Kaya said. The festival has been screening German and Turkish movies for over 20 years, and this year is scheduled to run until March 18, showing 43 films. Mr. Kaya stressed that in spite of government funding from Germany and, formerly, Turkey, the festival was independent. It was not particularly political, Mr. Kaya said, but he added that a few of the documentaries being shown had a political slant, and the inclusion of Kurdish-language films was a statement in itself because of the ongoing tension between the government and Kurdish independence groups. The content of the films, he said, might be less of a factor in the funding cut than the festival’s premise — which he said was “to support the intercultural exchange between two cultures” — at a moment when Turkey is increasingly suspicious of the West. The Turkish Culture Ministry declined to comment for this article, explaining that the minister was traveling abroad. Without the expected support from Turkey, the festival scrambled for funding, making up its shortfall through various organizations including the German Foreign Ministry and the Goethe Institut, a worldwide organization that promotes the German language and culture. Cultural events have often been used as chess pieces in diplomacy between the two countries. Turkey withdrew from the arts funding body Creative Europe in November 2016 to protest money being used to fund a concert at the German embassy in Istanbul that dealt with the 1915 massacre of Armenians by the Ottoman government. Germany had passed a resolution earlier that year labeling the killings a “genocide,” which angered Turkey. Sinan Ciddi, the director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Turkish Studies, said in a telephone interview that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey “makes quite a lot of electoral gain out of vilifying the West,” adding that Mr. Erdogan believes that “Western cultural norms are imports alien to Turkish culture.” At the end of February, the Turkish state broadcaster TRT was revealed after an inquiry by an opposition politician to have blacklisted 208 Turkish and Kurdish pop songs. In a statement on Twitter, TRT denied censorship, and said it was blacklisting songs that promoted alcohol, tobacco or terrorism. The Turkish government has in the past declared support for cinema, and funds feature films and other work at home, but has reduced funding for some film festivals in recent years. In 2014 the government said it was doubling state funding for domestic films, spending almost $7 million. It announced $1.5 million in funding for the first quarter of 2018 for 155 film projects, the bulk of it for documentaries, but also including support for cartoons, short movies and script writing. Mr. Ciddi said Mr. Erdogan had always sought to promote an Islamic culture in Turkey, separate from foreign influence. Mr. Erdogan has been explicit about wanting to uncouple Turkish and Western culture: he gave a speech in January decrying foreign influence at Turkish universities. The country’s culture and tourism minister, Numan Kurtulmus, said in a speech at a short film contest in February that Turkey’s main problem for the last two centuries “in culture, art and literature, even in thought, politics, and economics” had been “achieving cultural independence.” He said that Turkey’s artists needed to stop thinking that “by using and imitating products from Western civilizations we are going to become men and get stronger and somehow join the race of civilizations.” Artists who departed from Turkish tradition, he said, were like branches who believed they could grow when broken off from a tree. Mr. Kaya said that the ministry had given no reason for no longer sponsoring the film festival in Germany. But he suggested that in Turkey, the idea of the government giving funds without getting back some control over messaging was alien. “If they give money, they do not understand,” he said, why they might get criticism in return.
Bangkok Mass Transit System Plc (BTSC) on Tuesday evening reported a new signals problem and warned of further delays, blaming radio interference and the installation of a new signalling system. At 3.50pm, BTS reported another problem with its signal system and warned commuters of slow trains, longer stopovers at stations and further delays after the morning commute was disrupted. The operator stated via its Twitter account at 6.15am that a train broke down between Chong Nonsi and Surasak stations and trains would be delayed for 10 minutes. It advised commuters to allow more time for their trips. Five minutes later it stated the delayed train was repaired and removed from its system and train services would be 10 minutes late. At 6.26am, BTSC said its signals system malfunctioned on both the Sukhumvit and Silom lines and caused about 10 minutes of delay to some trains passing the Siam station. It apologised for the inconvenience. Similar delays occurred between 6am and 10am Monday, causing many BTS stations to overflow with commuters and drawing strong complaints. Delays are expected through Friday, the operator said. BTSC chief executive officer Surapong Laoha-unya on Tuesday again apologised to commuters. He attributed the disruption to the ongoing installation of a new radio system to cover signalling for all 52 trains and every station in the company’s electric railway network, including the southern extension in Samut Prakan province. The replacement of the radio system has affected service stability and caused malfunctions, he said, adding that the task would be finished on Friday. Mr Surapong added that over the past two weeks, BTS trains had frequently been delayed by interference from high-powered outside radio transmissions with the signalling system, especially at Prompong, Asok and Siam stations. The trains had to be slowed down for safety reasons as a result, he said, causing congestion. Takorn Tanthasith, secretary-general of the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission, said earlier on Tuesday that his office was using radio signal detection equipment to verify BTSC's previous assertion that train service was disrupted by radio signals from high-rise buildings alongside the tracks. Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use.
Asian stock markets plunged on the latest big sign of rising trade tensions between the United States and China. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell as much as 3.7% on Friday morning, while China's Shanghai Composite fell as much as 3.4%, and Japan's Nikkei by about 3.9%, shaving billions of dollars off the region's share markets. The losses came after President Donald Trump on Thursday directed the US trade representative to level tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese imports following a seven-month investigation into intellectual property theft. Related: China: We would fight a trade war 'to the end' China fired back with its own set of sanctions within hours of the White House decision. The country's Commerce Ministry said Friday that the trade sanctions would target $3 billion worth of US-made products ranging from pork to steel pipes. The world's two biggest economies said they would pursue legal action against one another at the World Trade Organization. "China does not want a trade war, but China is not afraid of a trade war. We are confident in our capability to face up to any challenge," the ministry said. Declines in the region came on the back of a grim day on Wall Street following Trump's announcement. The Dow plummeted 724 points, or 2.9%, while the S&P 500 dropped 2.5% and the Nasdaq 2.4%. Related: How a trade war could hurt these US states Asia's stock markets "are feeling the fire and fury" of the White House's latest trade sanctions, said Jingyi Pan, a Singapore-based market strategist at broker IG Group. China's swift retaliation had helped throw the region's stock "into a state of turmoil." The tit-for-tat tariffs hurt some names more than others. WH Group (WHGLY), which exports pork from the United States to China, slumped as much as 10% in Hong Kong trading. Some warned investors could be jittery for some time amid rising odds of a trade war between the United States and China. "One should not rule out that possibility that we are at the start of a long-drawn trade dispute," Pan said. CNNMoney (Hong Kong) First published March 22, 2018: 11:27 PM ET Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 and/or its affiliates.
Deutsche Welle: What's so special about the Horizons mission? Alexander Gerst: All space missions are special in that they allow us to see our home planet from a very different perspective. That's something that we cannot otherwise do. We all know that sometimes taking a step back and looking at a problem or a thing with some distance can actually help us to understand it much better. We also can understand solutions much better. Then, when we do science onboard the International Space Station (ISS) that's not possible anywhere on Earth, even with all the money you could possibly find and with all the effort you could possibly put into it. This fantastic laboratory in space allows us to do, for example, material sciences experiments. It helps us understand materials much better. Once we've understood them really well, we could produce such materials on Earth and, for example, build more fuel-saving turbines for airplanes and therefore improve life on Earth massively. That's a good reason to fly to space and therefore all space missions are very special. You're also the first German commander of the ISS. How does it feel? For me it is a great honor in a personal way. I call it my 'personal horizon' that I try to broaden here, because I'm learning how it is to take responsibility for a space vehicle and its crew. More than that it's actually a compliment. Not for me but for the European Space Agency to be given that responsibility and trust by their international partners who built the ISS. That shows you how well-integrated the European space flight is. There's really a continuity of European space flight onboard the ISS and that shows how important it is. There have been several studies showing that every euro that we invest into the ISS will get back to us with more than twice of that. So it's a very good investment and I'm happy to play my part in that. 'Horizons' is the name of your mission. What does horizons mean to you? Whenever I see a horizon I wonder what's beyond and how I can get there. It's my curiosity and not only mine — I think it's part of the human species. We are explorers. So we want to show that there are many horizons out there that need to be discovered. You could call humans an island species: We live on an island in the middle of a black universe and we must understand our surroundings in order to survive. It's our responsibility for future generations. So we want to show that it's important to look at these horizons. It could be Moon or Mars for example. In the case of the Moon, it is only a few days of travel away. That's as much as Antarctica was 100 years ago. By collecting valuable science data for climate scientists about Antarctica [over many decades], researchers helped save the planet. It's one of the many horizons of scientific nature. Every scientific experiment helps broaden our horizon. We step beyond it and find new things that are critically valuable for us. I want to show young people on Earth that it actually pays off. It is an important thing and a very positive thing for them to take responsibility for themselves in their surroundings. You worked a lot during your last mission with experiments by and for children. Are there any plans this time to get schoolchildren involved? Yes absolutely, that's my personal favorite. We had a competition going. The German Aerospace Center DLR and The European Space Agency ESA were looking for suggestions from schoolchildren as well as from university students. Some of the proposals we selected are very sophisticated. Some are real scientific experiments. I'm looking forward to make sure they happen. Unfortunately I have to use my own free time for it. There is no time planned in the busy schedule of the ISS. But I'm sure I will be able to conduct one or two or three of them in my own free time. It's just so much fun and I am looking at them like a little child myself. Some of the experiments from my last flight have had really surprising results. Actually scientists at universities are now looking into them and use them for their next experiments. Will we be able to see such experiments on social media? For me it's very important to share all that we do up there. When I look at something very beautiful I always have the urge to share. For me, the easiest way is just to take a photo of the Earth — of something beautiful. Then I write a few lines and send them down to Earth and share them with all my friends and supporters. Having them participate in my space mission a little bit really helps me. It's a lot of fun. Alexander Gerst is a German geophysicist and ESA astronaut. On June 6th 2018 he will travel to the International Space Station for six months. He will serve as the first German and only second European space station commander. Jessie Wingard conducted the Interview in 2017.
England are confident they will beat any lingering effects of fatigue from an increasingly hectic campaign by the time they start their first World Cup semi-final in 28 years, and are hopeful an unchanged lineup can exploit tiredness in Croatia’s ranks. Their opponents at the Luzhniki Stadium on Wednesday have been extended to extra time and penalty shootouts in each of their knockout games, against Denmark and Russia, and played against the hosts in Sochi on Saturday evening after England’s far more comfortable success over Sweden. They have serious doubts over the availability of their goalkeeper Danijel Subasic and right back Sime Vrsaljko. “Especially physically, it is very demanding on the body to go 120 minutes in a game and then obviously fly back to your base as well,” said Ashley Young. “We felt that when we played Colombia, but now they have done it twice, so it could be a major advantage to us and work in our favour. “That said, it’s a World Cup semi-final, and players will do everything they can, putting their bodies on the line, to play. It’ll be a tough game, so we’ve got to be mentally and physically prepared for what they will throw at us.” England trained in Zelenogorsk on Monday, with any fears over Jordan Henderson’s fitness having receded since the Liverpool midfielder limped away from the victory in Samara complaining of hamstring trouble. Jamie Vardy, who has been hampered with a groin problem that required two sugar injections, also took part, with Gareth Southgate’s squad effectively given a clean bill of health. The manager hopes to select an unchanged lineup for a tie that will see an increased English presence in the stands, with the Football Association expecting up to 10,000 fans to travel to Moscow, and will resist the temptation to add more defensive steel to his side. The threat of Luka Modric and Ivan Rakitic is clear, but England’s game plan will remain attack-minded and progressive. “That pair are world class,” said Eric Dier, who is likely to remain among the substitutes with Henderson fit to feature. “Modric is a fantastic player who can create magical moments. He’s been one of the outstanding performers so far in this World Cup, so we will have to do our jobs as a team and as individuals, and contain them both. “But you can still play on the front foot and be aggressive. We never want to be reactive. We want to be proactive. When you play against stronger opposition it is natural to do more defensive work, but that doesn’t mean we change our style or our mentality. “Our style is to play on the front foot. That is what the manager wants from us, and that is what the players believe in as well. We know that the next game is going to be the hardest yet, not just because of the opposition but because of the circumstances as well. We know there are going to be difficult periods in the game, but we never want to be on the back foot. We want to be aggressive and constantly on the front foot.” Although Young was quick to insist he had sensed “no fear” in the squad ahead of the national side’s biggest match since 1990, there is a realisation that a once-in-a-lifetime chance may await this group of players in Moscow. “It’s a great opportunity, we all know that,” said Kyle Walker. “I think it’s the best opportunity that England’s ever had, and probably might ever have, because, no disrespect to Croatia, the other side of the draw was a lot more difficult. “They have got some fantastic players. I’ve played with Luka and for me he is one of the best midfielders in the world by far, but they also have to worry about us. We’ve played well in the games. We’ve showed immense character, like when the equaliser went in against Colombia and we dug ourselves out, stepping up for the penalties. So we have shown character, we’ve shown belief. That’s what is going to get us over the line in this game.”
Copyright © 2018 Albuquerque Journal “High rate of speed.” “Flagrantly reckless driving.” “Driving erratically.” These reasons were behind the majority of pursuits Bernalillo County sheriff’s deputies were involved in throughout 2017 – a year when there were more than six times the number of pursuits than the previous year. In 2017, deputies were involved in 74 pursuits. In 2016, they were engaged in 11. In 2015, the number was 13. Sheriff Manuel Gonzales acknowledged the increase and said that it is due to a change in practice and policy by his officers. Citing personal and anecdotal experience with dangerous drivers on the road, as well as a 2014 study from a car insurance comparison group that ranked New Mexico drivers second-worst in the country, Gonzales said the department decided it needed to step in. “Well, we’re going to take action,” he said in an interview with the Journal. “And that action is doing what the people want us to do – that’s enforcement.” Prior to last summer, department policy only allowed deputies to pursue suspects in cases involving violent felonies – such as homicide, rape, armed robbery, kidnapping, aggravated battery or assault – or when a deputy “has reasonable grounds to believe that the offenders have committed, or are attempting to commit a crime for which the necessity for immediate apprehension outweighs the level of danger created by the pursuit.” But the policy was changed on July 6, 2017 – a decision supported by Gonzales. One high-level current and one former BCSO official has since testified they disagreed with the change. Current policy allows deputies to pursue misdemeanor suspects if they believe the person is driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or is “flagrantly reckless” and a danger to others on the road. The Journal sifted through two years worth of post-pursuit review packets – overflowing from where they were stuffed into a cardboard box – that deputies file after each pursuit and found that the increase came from chasing suspected reckless or drunken drivers. A handful of cases deputies submitted were determined not to qualify as pursuits – either because they involved Starchase GPS tracking technology or were called off immediately. The majority were initiated after a deputy saw someone running a red light, weaving in and out of traffic or speeding. Policy clarification Although Sheriff Gonzales attributed the increase in pursuits to the change in policy, a review by the Journal found that the number of pursuits had already increased significantly prior to the new policy – 33 occurred in the first six months of 2017. Many of those involved reckless driving. Undersheriff Rudy Mora, when asked about the early increase during the interview with Gonzales and other top BCSO officials, responded that the policy change was a clarification meant to empower deputies to tackle crime. Mora said deputies were saying they felt that there was a lot of confusion and they were not allowed to pursue anyone. “Go out and do your job and as long as you’re operating within that policy and the Safe Pursuit Act, the sheriff will support you … We wanted to make some changes and make it more clear,” he said. Mora said the policy change was run through the chain of command, the sheriff, the county legal department and the state law enforcement board to make sure it’s in compliance with New Mexico’s Law Enforcement Safe Pursuit Act. Gonzales acknowledged that a pursuit is a “high risk event,” but said that doesn’t mean that law enforcement can turn a blind eye to reckless drivers. According to the post-incident review packets, 49 sheriff’s department vehicles were damaged in 2017. Gonzales did point out that the department had called off 250 pursuits, although the time period was unclear, and that some deputies have been reprimanded or counseled if they were found to violate policy. High-profile case One of the most high-profile shootings by Bernalillo County sheriff’s deputies in recent years started with a police chase in Southeast Albuquerque. Around 3:45 a.m. on Nov. 17, 2017, Albuquerque Police Department officers spotted a truck near Lomas and Louisiana NE that had been reported stolen. Air support followed the truck, and Gonzales has said it was seen “driving periodically with its lights off at a high rate of speed, recklessly through that area of San Mateo and the I-40 corridor.” He said that when the truck entered the North Valley, deputies began to pursue it, set up spike belts and used a pursuit intervention technique to try to get the driver to stop. Near Hanover and Coors NW, they performed another PIT maneuver and the truck spun out and came to a stop. That’s where, Gonzales has said, the truck’s driver revved the engine and Deputy Joshua Mora – Undersheriff Mora’s son – fired seven times. The driver, Isaac Padilla, 23, and one of the passengers, Martin Jim, 25, were killed. Shawntay Ortiz, Jim’s partner and the mother of his 4-year-old son, has filed a lawsuit against the Bernalillo County Commission and the sheriff alleging battery, negligent supervision, hiring and training, as well as loss of consortium and wrongful death. Deputy Mora did not initiate that pursuit. An analysis of the post-incident review packets show he initiated eight others in 2017. Ortiz’s attorney, Sam Bregman, said in an interview that he worries someone will get hurt because of a pursuit. So far, no pursuits initiated by BCSO have ended in a traffic fatality on the road but four in 2017 and the beginning of 2018 – including the one involving Jim and Padilla – have ended with shootings. “The reason people are less safe is there are more pursuits for people that don’t need to be pursued,” Bregman said. “This is a perfect example – in our case there was a helicopter that was following this vehicle. There was no reason, no reason whatsoever, to try to have some kind of major chase throughout the streets and have a confrontation, which ended in shooting a firearm.” The shooting was one of nine over a 4½-month period last year involving the Sheriff’s Office. Five people were killed, three wounded and two were not hit. It was a noticeable uptick for the BCSO from previous years. In depositions held May 14 for Ortiz’s lawsuit, former Undersheriff Greg Rees and Sgt. Ryan Tafoya provided sworn testimony saying they had disagreed with the change to the pursuit policy. “Because it’s hard to manage,” said Rees, who is now the chief of the Metropolitan Detention Center. “When you’re a sergeant and ultimately you are responsible for managing that pursuit, and if you don’t have the mechanisms to control the pursuit, it can get out of hand really quick. … And so there might be a situation where a deputy is going to set up to throw a spike, when there’s another deputy getting ready to do a PIT. And because nobody is talking to each other, it’s a recipe for disaster in my book.” Review of pursuits Last March, the Bernalillo County Commission passed a resolution calling for an outside agency to review the Sheriff’s Office policies on vehicle pursuits and use of force. Commissioner Maggie Hart Stebbins, who sponsored the resolution, did not respond to multiple requests for an interview, but she has said at meetings that the review was in response to the community’s concerns over the increase in shootings. In May, the county signed a six-month contract with the Daigle Law Group, a firm from Connecticut. Gonzales said he is happy to have the second pair of eyes look over the policies. By contrast, all of the Albuquerque Police Department policies have already been scrutinized by outside agencies, following the U.S. Department of Justice consent decree in 2014. APD’s current policy is “to initiate a pursuit only when an officer has reasonable grounds to believe the offender presents a clear and immediate serious threat to the safety of other motorists or the public, which is ongoing before the pursuit beginning, or the offender has committed or is committing a violent felony.” In 2017, APD officers filed post-incident review packets for 12 pursuits, according to a department spokesman. In 2016, they filed 10 and as of mid-June 2018 they had filed nine. Paul Haidle, senior policy strategist for the American Civil Liberties Union of New Mexico, said he has been pleased with the level of scrutiny all APD policies now go through. “I think that’s a real model for policy development versus when we look at BCSO the policy development process that they have in place – or even what the policies are in the first place – is nowhere near as transparent as it needs to be,” he said. “I hope that’s something that comes out of this review that the County Commission has authorized.” Bregman said he had seen a change in the way APD operates in recent years and believes the department’s officers acted appropriately in the case he’s representing. “They didn’t chase it, they had a helicopter up top,” Bregman said. “The helicopter was following the vehicle and knew exactly where it was the whole time. Once this truck left the confines of the city of Albuquerque and into the county, the cowboys took over.”
WINDHOEK – Political infighting within opposition party Nudo turned comical yesterday, with each camp suspending and recalling members of the other from parliament and Windhoek city council. Nudo is currently divided into two camps, following a chaotic and violent congress last weekend. One group is backing current deputy secretary general Vetaruhe Kandorozu for party presidency, a position also sought by Utjiua Muinjangue. Party’s president Asser Mbai, accompanied by Kandorozu, were the first to draw blood when they announced at a press conference yesterday five party members were suspended, while three local authority councillors from Windhoek, Swakopmund and Okakarara were recalled. Those suspended were Joseph Kauandenge, who was also recalled from Windhoek city council, Uahimisa Kaapehi who also recalled from the Swakopmund municipal council, and Munjasa Karuhumba, who servedon the Okakarara town council. They were suspended alongside Muinjangue and Stephanus Zakaapi. An hour and half later, the faction supporting Muinjangue’s presidential bid, led by Kauandenge who vied for the secretary-general’s position, announced “the immediate suspension [from the party] of Mbai and Meundju Jahanika [and recall] both [as] members of the parliament, with immediate effect.” This, after the Mbai faction had written to the CEOs of the three towns that the three councillors were recalled from their postings. “We will, in due course, revert to your offices with the replacement and filling of this vacancies,” reads the letters signed by Jahanika as Nudo secretary-general. Mbai told the media that the suspension of the five members was decided at by the Nudo national executive committee meeting that took place in Windhoek on Wednesday night. The meeting, Mbai said, was attended by 10 of the 18 members of that committee. Muinjangue and Kauandenge claim to have emerged as winners during last weekend chaotic Nudo third elective congress, which Mbai had called off and postponed due to physical confrontations. The Muinjangue group says it suspended Mbai and Jahanika as they could not account for N$500 000 that disappeared under their watch from party coffers. “We are the legitimate leaders of this party following the congress resolution of 26 May 2018, hence both Mbai and Jahanika have no right to suspend anyone or carry out any activities under the name of Nudo,” said the statement by Kauandenge. They then signed off a letter to the Speaker of the National Assembly Professor Peter Katjavivi, saying: “Subsequent to our earlier letter send to you on Tuesday to announce the change in leadership following our just concluded national elective congress on 26 May 2018, please take note that at its first NEC [national executive committee] meeting held today 31 May 2018 in Windhoek, NEC has resolved to recall Mbai and Jahanika as members of parliament with immediate effect.” Katjavivi told New Era that he did not receive the letter recalling the two MPs. Kauandenge later told New Era that Mbai is now an ordinary Nudo member, without any powers to discharge party functions. The group supporting Kandorozu includes Professor Jekura Kavari who was candidate for deputy president, Vehonga Kaijere (national treasurer candidate), Gretchen Boois (deputy national treasurer candidate), Meundju Jahanika (secretary-general candidate), Lesley Kauandara (deputy secretary-general candidate), Likuis Mupya and Ndankie Hangero as national chairperson and deputy national chairperson candidates respectively. The Muinjangue campa boasts Peter Kazongominja who says he is now the vice-president, Kauandenge, Uaraa Uapingene who claims to be deputy secretary-general, Elia Kandjii as national chairperson, Vincent Kahua as secretary for information, Fanuel Haukambe as national treasurer, Uahimisa Kaapehi as director of elections, and Karuhumba. New Era reported on Monday that the party’s elective congress was abandoned after violence erupted in a battle for positions. The dispute was the alleged deliberate attempt by Jahanika to block some 120 delegates, supposedly belonging to the Muinjangue camp, from participating in the congress.
That’s why they’ve chosen to keep a pretty big secret from their son George as they want him to have as “normal” an upbringing as possible, according to The Sun. He may only be just about to celebrate his fifth birthday, but Prince George has a very big future ahead of him. The little boy is third in line to the throne after his dad Prince William and grandad Prince Charles. It’s this nugget of information that his parents have decided to keep from him for the time being — with William explaining there’s “a time and a place” for such a revelation, reports the Mirror. According to Catherine Mayer, who wrote the book Charles: The Heart of a King, Prince William really struggled with the magnitude of his future role when he was growing up. She told E! News in 2015: “With George they are trying to delay that moment of realisation and give him normality before they thrust this on him. “But it will be, nevertheless, part of his upbringing both in terms of what he sees his parents and grandparents doing and probably quite soon a beginning of an understanding that he is in public life and what that means.” Prince William has frequently been quoted as saying he and Kate are a “very normal” family behind closed doors. In an interview he said: “There’ll be a time and a place to bring George up and understand how he fits in, in the world. “We are very normal.” He insisted that his children, George, Charlotte and baby Louis will grow up in a “real, living environment”, not “behind palace walls”. However, with Prince George now attending school it may be tricky for his future job to remain under wraps. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have opted to send their first born to the rather posh south London school St Thomas’s of Battersea. This story first appeared in The Sun and is republished with permission. Originally published as Big secret the royals won’t tell George A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out here.
Hedge fund billionaire Alan Howard made sizable personal investments in cryptocurrencies last year and plans to put more of his own money into digital assets and the blockchain technology behind them, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Other partners at the hedge fund firm he co-founded, Brevan Howard Asset Management, have independently made similar investments, the people said, asking not to be named because the information isn’t public. The investments are separate from the $9.1 billion hedge fund firm, and Brevan Howard does not trade cryptocurrencies, said the people. Spokesmen for Howard and his company declined to comment on his trades. Howard, 54, has already hired at least one person to work for him on initiatives in digital assets and plans to hire more. He could make private-equity style investments in blockchain companies and may participate in initial coin offerings, said the people. Howard’s interest in cryptocurrencies contrasts with the skepticism or hostility of many luminaries of finance, from Jamie Dimon to Warren Buffett. Bitcoin’s whipsaw ride over the past six months has thrust the risks of investing in one of the wildest and least-regulated corners of finance into the spotlight. Cryptocurrencies do have some big-name enthusiasts, including former macro fund manager Mike Novogratz and billionaire investors Mark Cuban and Peter Thiel. Brevan Howard’s flagship macro hedge fund recorded its worst ever annual performance last year. Like some other hedge funds betting on economic trends in developed markets, a lack of volatility amid years of central-bank stimulus made it difficult to make money.
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos wants to build a permanent settlement on the Moon Updated May 29, 2018 15:25:32 Amazon founder Jeff Bezos predicts a future where humans will have to leave Earth, with the planet being reserved solely for "residential and light industrial" activities. And he's proposed working in partnership with government organisations like NASA to speed up the possibility of creating a permanent settlement on the Moon. Mr Bezos is the world's richest person, worth an estimated $176 billion, and in 2000 founded aerospace manufacturing company Blue Origin with the goal of reducing the cost of travel to space. The American billionaire was last week presented with an award for space settlement advocacy at the Space Development Conference in Los Angeles, and outlined a future where humans will leave Earth for the sake of the planet. "We will have to leave this planet. We're going to leave it, and it's going to make this planet better," Mr Bezos told GeekWire. "We'll come and go, and the people who want to stay, will stay." Mr Bezos believes heavy industry will be done in space, with the Moon being the ideal starting point due to solar power and the discovery of ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles, which could be used for energy. "The Earth is not a very good place to do heavy industry. It's convenient for us right now," Mr Bezos said. "But in the not-too-distant future — I'm talking decades, maybe 100 years — it'll start to be easier to do a lot of the things that we currently do on Earth in space, because we'll have so much energy." Blue Origin has designed different spacecraft to reduce the cost of reaching space, creating settlements and also being able to carry humans to the Moon. The first of these is the spacecraft New Shepard, with a test flight reaching an apogee of 107 kilometres before returning to Earth on April 30. External Link: Jeff Bezos tweet: 'Highlights from today’s mission. Don’t miss the Nerf ball doing a few backflips in zero gravity' For space settlements, Blue Origin has announced the New Glenn craft which it hopes to start testing in 2020. The company has also announced plans to build a lunar lander capable of carrying humans and hopes to work in collaboration with NASA. "By the way, we'll do that, even if NASA doesn't do it," Mr Bezos said. "We'll do it eventually. We could do it a lot faster if there was a partnership." 'Do you have some oxygen?' Mr Bezos also said he admires the European Space Agency's idea for a Moon Village, a collaborative effort among nations and private enterprise for a community on the Moon. "The Moon Village concept has a nice property in that everybody basically just says, look, everybody builds their own lunar outpost, but let's do it close to each other," Mr Bezos said. "That way, if you need a cup of sugar, you can go over to the European Union lunar outpost and say, 'I got my powdered eggs, what have you got?' "Obviously I'm being silly with the eggs, but there will be real things, like, 'Do you have some oxygen?'" Mr Bezos is not the only billionaire with his eyes set on settlements in space, with Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk envisaging a colony on Mars. Mr Bezos said he plans to cash in $US1 billion worth of Amazon stock each year to fund Blue Origin's ambitions. Topics: science-and-technology, space-exploration, spacecraft, the-moon, astronomy-space, united-states First posted May 29, 2018 13:42:28
It is Billy Graham’s voice that will be missed most. The beguiling yet commanding North Carolina drawl, accompanied by the stab of a finger, itself as sure as God’s in the old paintings. “The Bible says …” Graham would announce, pointing to the book that seemed permanently attached to his other hand. And then he would tell us what it said and why it meant what it said and why we must give our lives over to it. The Word, Christians understand, is eternal; it just seems odd that that voice, which for decades seemed just as enduring, is gone. Billy Graham died on Feb. 21 at age 99, and the hundreds of millions who love him have every reason to believe that he is now in a heaven he once, in his hyper-enthusiastic youth, described as follows: “We are going to sit around the fireplace and have parties, and the angels will wait on us, and we’ll drive down the golden streets in a yellow Cadillac convertible.” Yet his earthly legacy is everywhere. Ever read one of the Left Behind books? Notice all the so-called religion tests during the presidential primaries? Prayer breakfasts in Washington? Directly or indirectly, Graham was responsible for all these things. And, oh yes, the millions of people around the globe whom he brought to Christ. William Franklin Graham Jr. was born on Nov. 7, 1918, in a frame house near Charlotte, N.C., into a family of reformed Presbyterians. He was, by his account, born again 16 years later. “I didn’t have any tears … There was no lightning,” he recalled. “I made my decision for Christ. It was as simple as that, and as conclusive.” Graham became a Southern Baptist and briefly pastored a church, but his gift clearly lay in revivalism: as his wife Ruth later remarked, “I’d never heard anyone pray like that before.” Neither had newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst, who in 1949 cabled his editors a two-word directive to devote lots of space to the preacher then conducting a revival in Los Angeles: “Puff Graham.” From there the hyperkinetic young man dubbed God’s Machine Gun moved on to triumphs from London to New York City, where in 1957 he preached for 16 weeks at Madison Square Garden, reaching more than 2 million people. His tent meetings became “crusades,” vast regional revivals that lasted for days at a time, drawing people from neighboring states and countries wherever Graham decided to put down stakes. Over six decades he preached in 185 countries and territories and as late as 2005 was attracting crowds of 242,000. With the possible exception of Pope John Paul II, Graham can be said to have touched more lives for Jesus than anyone else in the modern era and to have extolled him directly to a greater swath of humanity than anyone else in history. Referring to the original itinerant evangelist, Graham biographer William Martin notes wryly that “[the apostle] Paul was good for his time. But on numerous occasions Billy spoke to more people at once than Paul did in his entire lifetime.” Graham did not reinvent revivalism, but like Henry Ford, he rationalized the production process. He supplemented his extraordinary charisma with meticulous advance work, military-grade organization and, eventually, every available technology from radio to television to global satellite transmissions to books and a magazine as well as, eventually, the Internet. He also established standards of financial and sexual propriety that maintained his reputation over a half-century of possible temptations and served as a model to shell-shocked colleagues after the televangelical scandals of the 1980s. He never built the First Church of Billy or risked the temptations that came with that kind of brick-and-mortar legacy. He called himself a preacher, not a pastor, in part because he had no fixed congregation but mostly because spreading the Gospel was what he did best. Though his organization was vast — local crusades often took several years to plan, organize and produce — he traveled light, with just a handful of longtime aides and loyal sidemen, most notably the late George “How Great Thou Art” Beverly Shea, one of the great gospel singers of the past century. Graham’s stem-winding sermons, loaded with fire and brimstone in the ’40s and ’50s, cooled with the cultural revolts of the ’60s and ’70s, and by the time he launched his last crusade at Flushing Meadows–Corona Park in Queens, N.Y., in 2005, he was name-checking the Rolling Stones. But they all ended the same way, with the invitation — the gentle, forgiving call to come forward and accept Christ as your savior. Millions heard it and stepped forward. Homiletic success, in turn, enabled his great social achievement: the retrieval of conservative Christianity, kicking and screaming, from the American sidelines. “Without him,” says Randall Balmer, chair of the religion department at Dartmouth, “we’d be living in a different world … Evangelicalism today would have virtually no political or cultural relevance whatsoever.” Maintaining that “the one badge of Christian discipleship is not orthodoxy but love,” Graham eventually provoked a great evangelical schism — and his side won. Today a vanishing minority practices defensive isolationism, while Christian singles climb the mainstream music charts, theological hard-liners court — and find — millions of impressionable readers and conservative Christians can claim an important role in the world-wide fight against AIDS. And that doesn’t even touch on politics. Graham pursued Presidents avidly, at the time an utterly bizarre evangelical interest. Harry S. Truman rebuffed him; Dwight D. Eisenhower welcomed him, accepted him and debriefed him after his foreign travels. Graham hobnobbed with John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton but favored Republicans. But his coziest — and costliest — relationship was with Richard Nixon. Watergate not only left Graham personally disillusioned but also damaged his moral authority outside the evangelical world. The friendship haunted him again in 2002, with the release of an old White House tape on which Graham commiserated about the Jewish “stranglehold” on the media. In his last years, Graham was increasingly incapacitated by Parkinson’s disease and eye trouble, yet both his past deeds and ongoing activities continued to resonate profoundly. It was his famous 1985 walk with the troubled son of yet another White House friend that helped lead George W. Bush to sobriety, conversion and his own political destiny. Offering the invocation at Bush’s first Inaugural was Billy’s son Franklin, the heir to his evangelical machine and an influential, if controversial, figure in his own right. (Another child, Anne Graham Lotz, is one of her generation’s foremost preachers.) It is possible that Graham was unsettled by the renaissance he ushered in. Unlike his son, he rarely embraced the religious right’s legislative agenda, and by the late 1970s, notes biographer Martin, warned its standard bearers to “be wary of exercising political impact” to the detriment of their spiritual authority. But by and large, he could take satisfaction from a world more receptive to his own unadorned message of salvation than when he started. Graham was modest about his achievements. “I don’t know why God has allowed me to have [all] this,” he told TIME in 1993. “I’ll have to ask him when I get to heaven.” But he must have guessed that He had recognized a unique servant when He saw one. Evangelicals are familiar with the story of Paul preaching on Mars Hill in Athens: some of his listeners scoffed; another group, well meaning, said, “We will hear you again about this.” Revivalists note that the latter remained unsaved, since the Bible tells us that “at that point, Paul left them.” Billy Graham was hardly the Gospel’s only late 20th century exponent, but he was easily the best. Those who meant to hear him but never got around to it have reason to rue his having gone out from among us.
The Government and the financial market players will address the issues of legal regulation of crypto-currencies. Experts discussed the ways of introducing the common rules in this field at the second annual blockchain technologies summit in Astana. The industry representatives from all various parts of the world shared their successful experiences and special legal aspects of the field. According to experts, the Astana International Financial Centre (AIFC) will greatly enhance the development of the field. The AIFC is providing favorable conditions in this field which is a unique initiative for the post-Soviet states. Experts also mentioned that implementation of the Digital Kazakhstan program is also contributing to the blockchain technologies development in the country. DASTAN KOZHABEKOV, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, KAZAKHSTAN ASSOCIATION OF BLOCKCHAIN AND CRYPTO-CURRENCIES: - As part of the Digital Kazakhstan program, the blockchain technologies are currently being developed and introduced in the tax administration system. In particular, VAT registration is being converted to the blockchain. The program is focused on creation of the positive digital environment and covers almost all industries. ALEXANDER BONDAR, PARTNER, SBH LAW OFFFICE, BELARUS: - We will present Belarusian blockchain experience, because Belarus is probably the first country in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) where blockchain technologies are already introduced. The Belarusian president issued a decree on the development of digital economy that covers the basics of the IT industry and blockchain technologies.
Baku hosted a presentation of a book titled “Nursultan Nazarbayev. Path of Life” in the Azerbaijani language. It is the joint project of the Kazakh First President’s Library and the Heydar Aliyev Center. The author of the foreword of the book, Ali Gassanov highlighted that President Nursultan Nazarbayev is one of the established leaders of the Turkic world. Reforms, initiated by the Kazakh president, have set a positive example for other countries. ALI GASSANOV, AIDE TO PRESIDENT OF AZERBAIJAN: - We hold such book presentations about the national leaders in order to bring our people together and inform them about the lives of the prominent statesmen. The leaders of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan pay great attention to the development of our strategic ties. In the book, the Azerbaijani readers can learn about the astonishing career of Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the history of Kazakhstan’s establishment, development of its economy and the rich culture of the Kazakh people. MAKHMUD KASSYMBEKOV, BOOK AUTHOR: - It is not our first joint project. As you may remember, a book about Heydar Aliyev was presented in Astana a month ago. That book received positive feedback from the Kazakh readers. I think that such joint projects will further promote friendly relations between the people of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. The presentation was attended by the Azerbaijani public and political figures, scientists and members of the parliament. The presentation also featured a screening of a documentary about the President of Kazakhstan.
Whiff of a scam in drink-and-drive checking across Bengaluru; anonymous letter alleges Cubbon Park inspector and ACP are paid huge amounts to retain the same staff on DD duty every night An anonymous letter addressed to seniors in Cubbon Park police station is threatening to snowball into a major embarrassment for the Bengaluru police. The letter alleges that the crackdown against drink-and-drive cases is driven solely by monetary considerations and not out of concerns for public safety. Although the letter specifically targets the Cubbon Park police, many serving and retired officials told Bangalore Mirror that the same model has been replicated across police stations in Bengaluru. The letter seems to be written by disgruntled elements (the point of the mail seems to be that only one set of police officials are getting all the moolah). The letter alleges that the Cubbon Park police has a drunken-drive checking squad (it’s called a DD squad) just like every other police station; however, the squad has the same junior rung staff every day and nobody else gets the opportunity to work this shift. What’s more, the members of this squad are perpetually on night shift, and don’t even have to wear uniform. DD checking is carried out on Tuesdays and weekends on the orders of the Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic). On other days, the station inspector can take a call based on inputs; he/she then forms a squad whose members perform breathalyser checks on motorists at strategically placed road blockades. But the biggest allegation that the letter makes is about the integrity of the inspector and the Assistant Commissioner of Police of the zone. It alleges that Inspector T Sanjeevarayappa is paid Rs 5,000 every day for keeping the same staff on the DD squad (that’s Rs 1.5 lakh a month); additionally, ACP Anthony John is paid Rs 1,000 per day to look the other way. This is apart from the other ‘sources of income’ that the two have. The towing guys give the inspector Rs 3,000/day for the three vehicles that they operate for Cubbon Park police station. ASI Sriramulu gives Rs 2.5 to 3 lakh a month to the ACP and the inspector, the letter alleges. DCP, Traffic (East) Anupam Agarwal confirmed that a complaint about Cubbon Park police had been received and an enquiry was on with respect to the names mentioned in it. The letter names constables Azhar (8811), Jabiulla (10696), Anand (7556), and head constables Sundar (6127), Murthy (7380) and Ajeeb (9154) as members of the DD squad paying bribes to the seniors. The numbers in the bracket stand for the identification numbers of the constables. Inspector Sanjeevrayappa dismissed the allegations. “The letter is anonymous and the allegations are not specific. Let them come up with some evidence. Moreover, the letter is not handwritten, it is typed. It is benami and not by our staff,” he told BM. ACP Anthony said he doesn’t know “who has done it and why they have done it”. He said he is trying to find out who has written the letter and expects the person to give some evidence. Insiders say it all started when some lower rung staff asked to be put on night shift. The man in-charge of the roster, station writer Satish Kumar, refused saying only DD squad can get night shift. Around six months back, Kumar was transferred to Vidhana Soudha security, an assignment for which he got relieved only two days ago; sources said he worked without a salary for these six months, which shows how much money he was making out of the scam. The letter says that Cubbon Park police station has 97 personnel of which 40-45 persons are put on day shift and the rest on second shift. But six persons (named above) are always on night shift, the letter alleges. In its page 1 story on August 8, Bangalore Mirror had detailed how the DD mafia works. Of the 10-odd cases that the police detect every night, only about two are sent to the court and the rest are ‘solved’ by the cops themselves by charging Rs 7-10,000 per case. If the letter is to be believed, then this corrupt behaviour is more the norm than the exception.
They’re some of the nation’s most-loved dishes, but it seems that meals including fish and chips and chicken tikka masala could be at risk as a result of climate change. A new report by WWF has found that many favourites may taste different, need substitute ingredients and cost more in future, as climate change could threaten the supply of the key ingredient. The report revealed that by 2050 chicken tikka masala could be transformed, as chickens will be fed on alternative feeds such as insects and algae. Rice prices are also expected to rise by a third, while we could see onion shortages caused by an increase in diseases. Meanwhile, traditional cod could be replaced by anchovies in fish and chips, as warmer oceans cause smaller species to displace cod populations. Cheese production is also likely to be affected due to heat stress on dairy herds and resulting impact on milk production, meaning cheese ploughman’s sandwiches could be a thing of the past. The report also calculated the environmental costs of these dishes today. The cheese ploughman’s was found to create 2.6kg CO2 in greenhouse gas emissions to produce - the equivalent of charging a smartphone 316 times, boiling a kettle 113 times or keeping an LED lightbulb switched on for 28 whole days. Gareth Redmond-King, Head of Energy and Climate at WWF commented: “The threat to these classic dishes just shows that climate change could impact every aspect of our lives in future if we don’t act now. “That’s why this Earth Hour we want people to eat more sustainably. That doesn’t necessarily mean going vegan or vegetarian – it means each of us cutting back on the amount of fish, meat and dairy we eat. “If each of us takes a small action, together we can combat climate change and future-proof our best-loved dishes.”
Seven months after the death of Sir Bruce Forsyth, his widow Wilnelia tells how she still feels the pain of her loss every day. More than a husband, he was friend, soulmate and her eternal source of fun and laughter. Wilnelia’s heartbreaking speech comes at the end of a tribute to the TV legend at the London Palladium, where family and showbiz friends came together to honour Brucie. He and Wilnelia were married for 34 years, and his death at 89 in August, has left a huge hole in her life. Former Miss World Wilnelia, 60, said: “There are no words to express how much we miss him. There is not a day that goes by where I don’t think of him. He brightened my days with laughter and his sense of humour. He was a great father, a great husband and most of all he was my very dear friend.” The concert was hosted by Bruce’s Strictly sidekick Tess Daly, and included performances by Michael Ball and Alfie Boe, Alexandra Burke and Shirley Bassey. Two of Bruce’s six children, Julie and Laura, daughters by his first wife Penny Calvert, also sang in their father’s memory. But anecdotes told by Bruce’s friends provided some of the most moving moments. Russ Abbott, 70, recalled how Bruce reacted to being knighted in 2011. Russ said: “I rang him to congratulate him. He said, ‘Thanks, love,’ and he told me he couldn’t wait to go to the airport to pick up his beloved Winnie, who was on her way back from Puerto Rico. He said, ‘I can’t wait to go and meet her off the plane and say, Welcome home, Lady Forsyth’.” Sir Elton John, 70, also paid tribute. He said: “Take it from me, he was one of the greatest entertainers I have ever seen in my whole life. He was British and we should be so proud of him. It took him far too long to get a knighthood, we were all knocking on that door for him and eventually he got it. “He so deserved it.” Ant and Dec recalled working with Bruce on the National TV Awards in 2012. Dec said: “I’ve got a photograph of the three of us on stage, it’s lovely. He was truly, a one-off. There will never be another Sir Bruce Forysth.” Ant, 42, said: “There’s quite a lot going on there, when you’re hosting those shows, and Bruce could do it all.” Dec, 42, added: “It takes two of us to do it.” Bruce, who was married three times and had six children, was a golfer and he and Winnie lived by the course in Wentworth, Surrey, where he played with the likes of Anton Du Beke, Jimmy Tarbuck and former Strictly judge, Len Goodman. Len, 73, recalled: “Half-way up the 18th hole he’d phone home and say, ‘We’re nearly finished, we’ll be in 10 minutes, have some food ready’. “We’d go back and there would be all these lovely little tapas things to eat. I loved Bruce Forsyth. I miss him enormously.” Bruce hosted Strictly from its launch in 2004 until 2013 and made sure it was the best it could be. Soon after becoming BBC Chairman, Michael Grade had lunch with Bruce and recalled: “Bruce said to me, ‘I know it’s not the Chairman’s job, but the set on Strictly is not working for me. I am too far from the audience and the producers won’t listen’.” Grade “broke all the rules” and intervened. He said: “The set was changed and the show improved. He knew his onions.” After an event full of tears, laughter and memories, Wilnelia had the final word at the Palladium. She said: “To our friends and Brucie’s fans we thank you for all your support, for loving him and for allowing him to be part of your life.” ...fondue set, cuddly toy, TV licence? BBC bosses rowed about the Generation Game conveyor belt, with some arguing licence fee money should not be spent on cuddly toys, foot spas and other prizes. Former head of light entertainment Jim Moir told the Palladium: “There was an internal row. It went on and on, should the BBC be giving away cuddly toys, fondue sets and foot spas? They wanted to give away licence fee stamps.” The prizes won, and the show, which Bruce presented with second wife Anthea Redfern was “a triumphant and enduring success”, he said.
NEW DELHI: A marginal increase in the defence budget + barely accounts for inflation, without helping address the glaring imbalance between cutting-edge weaponry and old equipment in the Indian armed forces, senior military officers have told the parliamentary standing committee on defence. A modern military should typically have 30% of its weaponry and equipment in the state-of-the-art technology category, 40% in current category and 30% in vintage category. But the over 12-lakh strong Indian Army is grappling with an alarming 8% (state-of-the-art), 24% (current) and 68% (vintage) weaponry mix while it’s engaged in daily cross-border firing duels with Pakistan and heightened tensions with China since the Doklam stand-off last year. The Army feels a two-front war scenario is a clear and present danger. “The 2018-2019 budget has dashed our hopes ... The marginal increase barely accounts for inflation and does not even cater for taxes,” Army vice-chief Lt-General Sarath Chand told the parliamentary committee on defence. Allocated just Rs 21,338 crore for modernisation, the Army simply does not have enough money to pay instalments worth Rs 29,033 crore for 125 ongoing schemes and deals inked earlier as well as emergency procurements of ammunition made in the aftermath of the Uri terror attack and “surgical strikes” in 2016 to ensure reserves for 10 days of “intensive war-fighting”. Similar is the case with road and infrastructure development along the China border, among other things. “We, in the Army, also identified as many as 25 projects for the `Make in India’ policy. However, there is no adequate budget to support this. As a result, many of these may end up foreclosed,” said Lt-Gen Chand. Top officers of IAF, Navy and Coast Guard also sounded similar alarms, leading the committee to slam the government for starving the armed forces of requisite funds for both modernization and day-to-day operational sustenance. “We are aghast to note this dismal scenario where the representatives of the Services have themselves frankly explained the negative repercussions on our defence preparedness due to inadequate fund allocations,” said the committee, chaired by BJP leader Major General B C Khanduri, in a series of reports tabled in Parliament on Tuesday. The allocated funds are not enough to even pay for “committed liabilities or instalments” of earlier arms contracts, leaving virtually nothing for new modernisation projects. The story was similar under the revenue head for day-to-day operating costs, which in any case dwarfs the capital outlay in a skewed 67:37 ratio due to a ballooning salary bill.
Italy goes to the polls on Sunday, bringing to an end a volatile and unpredictable election campaign, in which 30 to 40 percent of voters remain undecided. Europe's fourth largest economy is struggling with deficits, a large debt load, high unemployment, a shaky banking industry, as well as social and political unrest. Berlusconi's remarkable comeback shows just how difficult it is for a country to rid itself of populists once they have infiltrated the system. - Yascha Mounk, lecturer at Harvard University Populism is on the rise, on both the left and the right — and what's more, the nation's most notorious bad-boy politician is back in action. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has brought together a coalition of right-wing parties, including his own Forza Italia, which is currently several points ahead in polls. For Yascha Mounk, this state of affairs does not bode well for democracy, in Italy and beyond. The academic and author of the new book, The People vs. Democracy: Why Our Freedom is in Danger and How to Save It, wrote recently in Slate that, "Berlusconi's remarkable comeback shows just how difficult it is for a country to rid itself of populists once they have infiltrated the system." Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi gestures as he attends a rally outside his house, Palazzo Grazioli, on November 27, 2013 in Rome, Italy. (Giorgio Cosulich/Getty Images) Berlusconi, who served as leader for 17 years, was ousted in 2011 following sexual and financial scandals (he's banned from seeking public office himself). He left with a dubious political record: a sluggish economy and a compromised judicial system. And yet his popularity endures. Mounk writes that, "perhaps the most striking thing about Berlusconi's return is that the rest of the country's political scene has surpassed him in craziness during the years of his political exile." Apparently these kinds of figures can actually perpetuate themselves and even mount stunning comebacks once they've been thrown out of politics. - Yascha Mounk That scene includes the nationalist, anti-immigrant Lega Nord party and the Cinque Stelle movement, an insurgent, anti-establishment party with its support concentrated among young people. The rise of these populist parties, Mounk explains to Day 6 guest host Rachel Giese, is evidence that "the mode of politics Berlusconi championed really has taken hold all across the political spectrum. And that, too, has me really worried about the long term effect of figures like Berlusconi." In the case of Italy, the instability created by populist movements has had an impact on social cohesion — Lega Nord is rabidly anti-immigrant — and on the possibility for positive economic reform. Mounk warns that Italy could find itself, like Greece before it, mired in a financial crisis and on the brink of crashing out of the EU. He also says that Americans should be watching Italy's fate closely. Like Berlusconi, President Donald Trump is "a billionaire with a knack for shameless self-promotion, [and] a love of surrounding himself with beautiful women." Silvio Berlusconi poses with a supporter at the end of a campaign rally in Milan on February 25, 2018, ahead of the Italian general elections of next week. (Piero Cruciatti/AFP/Getty Images) And the conventional wisdom of pundits and his political opposition is that the antics of figures like Trump, from investigations of possible complicity with Russia to allegations of affairs with (and pay-offs to) porn stars, will eventually lead to their demise. The return of Berlusconi should warn them otherwise. Mounk says "it's astounding" that the appeal of populist leaders survives even after they've failed and been disgraced. "This has me quite worried," he says, "because apparently these kinds of figures can actually perpetuate themselves and even mount stunning comebacks once they've been thrown out of politics." To hear our full interview with Yascha Mounk, download our podcast or click 'Listen' above.
Cal's women's basketball coach says Southwest Airlines asked her to "prove" that her biracial son was hers before boarding a flight from Denver to Oakland. In a series of tweets Monday, coach Lindsay Gottlieb wrote that an employee at Southwest's ticket counter asked for proof that she is Jordan Gottlieb Martin's mother in the form of a birth certificate. Gottlieb claimed that the Southwest employee, who cited "federal law," then asked her to "prove I’m (his) mother with (a) Facebook post." "She said because we have (a) different last name," Gottlieb wrote in one tweet. "My guess is (it's) because he has a different skin color." In a subsequent statement provided to USA TODAY Sports through an athletic-department spokesperson, the 40-year-old coach called the interaction "uncomfortable and hurtful." "I felt that in this situation it was my responsibility to say, 'Hey, this isn’t OK,'" Gottlieb said in the statement. "We had a passport that verified our son’s age and identity, and both parents were present. But still being pushed further to 'prove' that he was my son felt disrespectful and motivated by more than just concern for his well-being." @SouthwestAir I’m appalled that after approx 50 times flying with my 1 year old son, ticket counter personnel told me I had to “prove” that he was my son, despite having his passport. She said because we have different last name. My guess is because he has a different skin color. Gottlieb said she reached out to Southwest Airlines on social media and they quickly apologized, telling her that they would use the interaction as a "coaching" moment. In a statement provided to USA TODAY Sports on Wednesday morning, the airline company said it had corresponded with Gottlieb to address her concerns and spoken to the employee involved. "We apologize if our interaction made this family uncomfortable — that is never our intention," Southwest Airlines said in the statement. "Our employees are well-regarded for their hospitality, and we always strive for the best experience for anyone who entrusts us with their family’s travel. "Southwest Airlines’ policy is to verify lap children are younger than the age of two by reviewing a birth certificate or government issued identification. Certain international locations require us to verify additional paperwork for those travelling with a minor. Domestic travel does not require carriers to match last names of a child and guardian." Gottlieb has guided the Golden Bears to six NCAA tournament appearances in seven seasons as their head coach, including a trip to the Final Four in 2013. She met her fiancé, Patrick Martin, who is black, in 2014, and their son turned 1 earlier this month. Gottlieb, who is one of several mothers who also work as Division I women's basketball coaches, said she appreciated Southwest's response but was nevertheless hurt by what occurred. "While it was upsetting and emotional, I realize that this was just one day of my life where I was uncomfortable and our family was made to feel 'less than' whereas others face similar situations on a daily basis," she said in the statement. "I hope the coverage this has received can serve as a learning opportunity and that all families — regardless of how 'traditional' they may or may not look — are treated with dignity and respect." Contact Tom Schad at tschad@usatoday.com or on Twitter @Tom_Schad.
FILE - In this Jan. 3, 2018 file photo, state Sen. Tony Mendoza, D-Artesia, stands at his desk after announcing that he will take a month-long leave of absence while an investigation into sexual misconduct allegations against him are completed, during the opening day of the Senate in Sacramento, Calif. Mendoza announced Thursday, Feb. 22, 2018 that he is resigning over sexual misconduct allegations just ahead of a possible vote by his colleagues to expel him. In his resignation letter, Mendoza called the Senate's process "farcical" and unfair and is still considering running for re-election in the fall. (AP Photo/Steve Yeater, File) FILE - This Aug. 26, 2016 file photo shows state Sen. Tony Mendoza, D-Artesia, at the Capitol in Sacramento, Calif. Mendoza announced Thursday, Feb. 22, 2018 that he is resigning over sexual misconduct allegations just ahead of a possible vote by his colleagues to expel him. In his resignation letter, Mendoza called the Senate's process "farcical" and unfair and is still considering running for re-election in the fall. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli, File) SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — A California state senator accused of sexual misconduct resigned Thursday just ahead of a possible vote to expel him, delivering a scathing resignation letter that called the investigation a farce and underscored the Legislature's struggle to respond to the #MeToo movement. Democratic Sen. Tony Mendoza of the Los Angeles area said he may still run for the seat this fall, putting his party in an uncomfortable spot. His resignation letter takes aim at the leader of the Senate, a fellow Democrat and his former roommate in Sacramento who was leading the effort to kick him out. "It is clear that Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon will not rest until he has my head on a platter to convince the MeToo movement of his 'sincerity' in supporting the MeToo cause," Mendoza wrote as he resigned. De Leon, who is running for the U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat Dianne Feinstein, said the Legislature "won't tolerate abuse of power and a pattern of behavior that violates our harassment standards." An investigation found that Mendoza likely engaged in unwanted "flirtatious or sexually suggestive" behavior with six women, including four subordinates, a lobbyist and a young woman in a fellowship with another lawmaker. He is the third California lawmaker to resign over sexual misconduct allegations since the #MeToo movement erupted nationally last fall, leading millions of women to share their experiences on social media. Mendoza has consistently denied wrongdoing and blasted an investigation that he claimed was unfair, illegal and racially motivated. His complaints illustrate the Legislature's struggle to respond to growing demands for a change in a culture perceived as burying complaints and sheltering offenders. "Removing senators from the process of deciding cases of sexual harassment involving their friends and roommates is imperative," said Sen. Andy Vidak, a Republican who first moved to expel Mendoza in January. "The Mendoza mess has brought to light all of the flaws of our sexual harassment policies but hopefully will lead us to some resolution." The Legislature still hasn't adopted fair and transparent policies for sexual misconduct four months after dozens of women who work at the Capitol sent a letter calling for a change in culture, said Samantha Corbin, a lobbyist and co-founder of a group called We Said Enough that formed in the wake of the letter. "There's a lot of room for interpretation, there's a lot of ambiguity, and it does neither the victims nor the perpetrators any type of justice," she said. "It's unfair for everyone." Mendoza's resignation was the best solution for the women who accused him of misconduct, but it hasn't delivered justice or due process, Corbin said. Leaders of the Legislative Women's Caucus said more work remains to be done to ensure clear sexual harassment policies. Assemblywoman Susan Talamantes Eggman and Sen. Connie Leyva said the Legislature must ensure harassment claims are dealt with transparently and "no one is beyond reproach." Mendoza's resignation letter was hand-delivered by an aide moments after the Senate Rules Committee lifted his suspension so he could return to the Capitol and publicly defend himself against expulsion. His photo was quickly removed from a wall showing the sitting lawmakers and replaced with the seal of the Senate. Mendoza wrote that he wasn't able to see the evidence against him and was ordered to remain silent about the allegations. He said he couldn't get a fair hearing with so many of his fellow Democrats running for higher office and thinking about their own political futures. Lawyers who conducted the investigation released Tuesday found that Mendoza "more likely than not" engaged in behavior such as offering a 19-year-old intern alcohol in a hotel suite at a Democratic event, suggesting a young woman in a Senate fellowship take a vacation with him and rent a room in his house, and asking several women about their romantic lives. Mendoza, who is 46 and married, said in his resignation letter that "more likely than not" was a low standard of proof that didn't merit a penalty as high as expulsion. He called the Senate's process "farcical." Mendoza had taken leave and then days before he was set to return in January, the Senate Rules Committee suspended him because the independent investigation had not yet concluded. He doesn't plan to drop a lawsuit he filed last week seeking reinstatement. He alleged his suspension was unconstitutional, among other arguments. Elected officials need to hold themselves to a higher standard, and the Senate doesn't need to hold itself to the same standard as a court of law, said Kim Nalder, director of the Project for an Informed Electorate at California State University, Sacramento. "So long as there's a process that's transparent and rigorous, that's what we should expect of them." The Senate could be challenged again soon. An investigation has concluded into Sen. Bob Hertzberg, whom at least three female colleagues say made them uncomfortable with hugs. The findings have not been made public. Two other Los Angeles-area Democratic representatives, Raul Bocanegra and Matt Dababneh, resigned last fall. Assemblywoman Cristina Garcia has taken leave after she was accused of groping.
Bengaluru: Taking umbrage to comments in a section of the media that crop loan waiver would benefit only farmers belonging to Vokkaliga community, JD(S) patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda said such calculations were illogical and that Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy would reply in the Legislative Assembly soon. “I am not bothered about such allegations. I understand the motive behind it. I did not know which intelligent person calculated the loan waiver scheme will benefit 34 per cent of Vokkaliga farmers,” he told the media. Mr Gowda said Vokkaliga population was concentrated in four to five districts in old Mysuru region. Do Vokkaligas reside in Bidar or Mangalore?. The budget was yet to be debated in the Assembly and Mr Kumaraswamy would clarify during his reply in both Houses of legislature. Not agreeing with some Congress leaders that north Karnataka had got a raw deal in the budget, Mr Deve Gowda said the previous government headed by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had already announced a number of schemes in his budget and the same would be continued by the coalition government.
New Delhi: The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT), constituted on June 2, 1990, has been dissolved by the Centre as it stated that all the disputes over sharing of the river water among states had reached a “finality” and the panel was no longer needed. The tribunal was constituted under the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, 1956 for the adjudication of the water dispute between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Kerala and Puducherry were the other two states party to the dispute. The Supreme Court had in February hiked Karnataka’s share of Cauvery water by 14.75 tmcft and reduced Tamil Nadu’s quantum by an equal amount in its verdict to resolve the decades-old dispute. Tamil Nadu was, however, compensated by the court which allowed the state to extract 10 tmcft ground water from the river basin. In May, the Centre presented a draft of the Cauvery Management Scheme for smooth distribution of water among four southern riparian states—Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry—, saying the scheme should be taken to its “logical end”. The intervention was approved by the apex court. “The Central Government is satisfied that no further reference to the said tribunal in the matter would be necessary. Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby dissolves the said tribunal,” said a notification issued by Sanjay Kundu, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Water Resources on Monday.
Blessings Mashaya Â â¢Â 9 July 2018 3:42PM Â â¢Â 0 comments HARARE - President Emmerson Mnangagwa cannot weed out corrupt elements within his government because he has dirty hands, MDC Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa has said. Speaking at a rally in Zvishavane on Saturday, Chamisa told his supporters that Mnangagwa is the symbol of corruption in Zimbabwe. âI heard Mnangagwa saying he had created an anti-corruption unit in his office, I laughed and said a mosquito cannot cure malaria. People may think that I am lying but you must ask who is helping a certain business tycoon to export chrome outside this country, ask who is causing price increases through his involvement in fuel industry, ask gold panners who is grabbing their mines, they will tell you.â Chamisa said all parastatals were destroyed by the ruling party because of corruption. âMnangagwa knows that Zimbabwe has for 38 years invested in corruption, the only industry that has been growing in this country is the industry of corruption. Corruption is now a national religion; it is now a national anthem. âOur current government is celebrating corruption, the country lost $15 billion and no one was arrested, the likes of Zupco (Zimbabwe United Passenger Company) and NRZ (National Railways of Zimbabwe) were destroyed because of corruption but no one was arrested. Everything which starts with letter âZâ is corrupt in this country. âWe are going to arrest all those who were involved in corrupt activities; everyone who take money from government coffers is going to return it in six months. If they fail to do so we are going to use the law and our police so that we get back that money.â Despite promising to take on corrupt elements in his office, Mnangagwa has failed to deliver on his promises with no single conviction so far on those alleged to be corrupt. In fact, most of the officials nabbed on graft allegations are now out on relaxed bail conditions, with some having had their passports returned, including permanent secretaries accused of graft. Chilling warnings made to individuals and companies accused of externalising foreign currency have so far come to nought, more than three months after the expiry of the March 19 deadline. Chamisa also said the people of Zvishavane must not vote for Mnangagwa because he destroyed Shabanie Mine. Meanwhile, Chamisa said traditional leaders will be part of his government structure. âTraditional leaders are going to be in my government structures. I am going to meet them twice a year and hear their grievances and the plight of their people. We want to elevate the status of chiefs and all headmen, they are important; we are going to engage them when we do our budget. âWe are also going to change the Local Government Act. We are going to restore the status of executive mayors. They are blaming us on councils but our councils were failing because there was interference from Zanu PF ministers, we want to change this.â
Former Union minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday moved a trial court and the Delhi high court seeking anticipatory bail after both the ED and the CBI summoned him in connection with the Aircel-Maxis and INX Media cases respectively. Chidambaram was issued notices to appear before both investigative agencies to join the probe after his role came under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). His name appeared in the Rs 3,500 crore Aircel-Maxis case and the Rs 3,05 Crore INX Media case. Apprehending his arrest in both cases, Chidambaram first moved the Patiala House court in the Aircel-Maxis case where special judge OP Saini granted him immunity from arrest till June 5 when the matter would be heard. In his plea seeking protection from arrest, 72-year-old Chidambaram, said that the summons are “mala fide and with the sole intent of enabling the Central Government to pursue a politically motivated vendetta”. Appearing for the former minister, senior advocates and Congress leaders Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, submitted that their client is ready and willing to join the investigation as and when called by the officers of ED, provided he is granted interim protection. Following this, special judge OP Saini said, “In view of the above submissions, put up the application for disposal on June 5, 2018, as prayed. Applicant/accused is directed to join the investigation as and when called by the officers of Enforcement Directorate. However, till then, no coercive action shall be taken against him”. The battery of lawyers then reached Delhi high court seeking anticipatory bail in the INX media case where Chidambaram’s role is under scanner for granting FIPB approval to two companies in which alleged irregularities have been found. The hearing, which was supposed to take place on Wednesday, witnessed drama as Justice SP Garg, recused himself from the hearing. The matter was then listed for proceedings before Justice A K Pathak , who said that he would hear the case at 3pm. But finding it difficult to wait till then, counsels for both the sides, jointly requested for an adjournment. The matter will now be heard at 10.30am on Thursday, half an hour before Chidambaram has to appear before the CBI . In his plea filed in the HC, Chidambaram said he was summoned despite him not being mentioned as an accused or a suspect. He said that he feared arrest because of the circumstances under which his son was arrested earlier this year. While Chidambaram refused to comment on the matter, Congress spokesman RPN Singh accused the BJP-led NDA government of “indulging in political vendetta to target” its political rivals. However, Anil Baluni, Rajya Sabha member and head of BJP’s media cell, said, “The law is taking its own course in the matter. His pleas show his desperation fearing the inevitable.”
The suspected poisoning of a former Russian spy has drawn chilling comparisons with the death of Alexander Litvinenko . Sergei Skripal is fighting for life in hospital after being found unconscious on a bench in a shopping centre in Salisbury, Wiltshire, on Sunday. The 66-year-old former double agent was convicted in 2006 of passing state secrets to MI6 before being given refuge in the UK as part of a spy swap. It is thought Skripal and a 33-year-old woman who was found alongside him were exposed to an unknown substance. The mysterious incident echoes the agonising death of former KGB agent Litvinenko who was fatally poisoned in London more than a decade ago. The Russian dissident who became a British citizen died aged 43 in November 2006, three weeks after he drank tea laced with radioactive polonium-210 at the Millennium Hotel in Mayfair. Litvinenko’s widow Marina Litvinenko told the Telegraph last night: “It looks similar to what happened to my husband but we need more information. We need to know the substance. Was it radioactive?” She also told BBC Radio 4's World Tonight: "It's like deja vu, (like) what happened to me 11 years ago." She added: "In Russia it is still (an) old-fashioned and old-style KGB system... It's still all the same. If there is an order to kill somebody it will happen." A public inquiry concluded in 2016 that the killing of Litvinenko, an outspoken critic of Vladimir Putin, had "probably" been carried out with the approval of the Russian president. The inquiry headed by the former high court judge Sir Robert Owen found two Russian men - Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitri Kovtun - had deliberately poisoned Litvinenko. It said the use of the radioactive substance - which could only have come from a nuclear reactor - was a "strong indicator" of state involvement and that the two men had probably been acting under the direction of the FSB, Russia's state agency. Possible motives included Litvinenko's work for British intelligence agencies, his criticism of the FSB, and his association with other Russian dissidents, while it said there was also a "personal dimension" to the antagonism between him and Putin. International arrest warrants issued for Lugovoi and Kovtun remain in force although Russia continues to refuse their extradition. Putin had refused to accept the inquiry's findings. Meanwhile, a coroner examining the death of a wealthy Russian whistleblower warned last year of the danger of getting "caught up in conspiracy theories". The inquest into the death of Alexander Perepilichnyy is looking at whether he died from natural causes or was poisoned before he collapsed while out jogging near his home in Weybridge, Surrey, in November 2012. At the time, the 44-year-old father-of-two was allegedly helping specialist investment firm Hermitage Capital Management uncover a 230 million US dollar (£150 million) Russian money-laundering operation. He had also recently taken out £3.5 million worth of life insurance and applied for another £5 million worth of policies, the inquest at the Old Bailey heard last June. Lawyers for Hermitage previously claimed that Mr Perepilichnyy could have been deliberately killed and had been on an underworld "hit list". Detective Superintendent Ian Pollard, of Surrey Police, said he did not think Mr Perepilichnyy was under threat and he found no link to foreign crime gangs. The inquest is set to resume in mid-April. And the circumstances of the death of Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky remained uncertain after a coroner recorded an open verdict in March 2014. After summing up the two days of "contradictory" evidence, Berkshire coroner Peter Bedford said he could not prove beyond all reasonable doubt that the businessman either took his own life or was unlawfully killed. The body of the former Kremlin insider was discovered slumped on the bathroom floor at his ex-wife's luxury property in Ascot, Berkshire, with a ligature wound to his neck on March 23 last year. Although there were suggestions that the 67-year-old - who had survived at least two assassination attempts - was murdered, police did not find any evidence of foul play.
China's impossible trinity threatens economic slowdown Updated July 10, 2018 13:55:43 The Chinese Government faces a difficult dilemma — sacrifice some economic growth in the short term, or risk a debt-induced financial crisis down the track. ANZ's chief China economist Raymond Yeung explains the problem. "If President Xi Jinping truly prioritises reforms over growth, we must see more corporate defaults or foreign borrowing," he warned in a note. He believes Chinese authorities will opt for lower debts, since China's foreign debt is already at a record high $US1.8 trillion. Moreover, nearly two-thirds of this is short-term debt that will soon have to be refinanced in the face of rising US interest rates. The combination of rising external liabilities and a weaker trade environment saw China post a rare current account deficit in the first quarter, its first since 2001. But JP Morgan still rates China as one of the safer developing economies during the current period of US dollar appreciation that has unsettled many countries, notably Turkey and Argentina. China has also had an addiction to non-bank "shadow lending", which companies and local authorities have used to get around Beijing-imposed controls on borrowing. However, those authorities are now cracking down on this backdoor lending channel. As unprofitable Chinese firms that have relied on injections of cheap debt from overseas or domestic shadow banks find these funding sources drying up, many will face default and collapse. Mr Yeung says that, in turn, is likely to see China's economic growth rate slow further to 6.3 per cent per annum. "While this will be the lowest since the GFC, China's GDP will still expand sequentially," he said. The slowdown means Australian exporters can expect to face tougher times later this year, with Chinese authorities also cracking down on highly polluting industries such as steel production. However, Mr Yeung believes this mild, short-term pain will yield longer-term gains. "We believe that slowing GDP growth is not a risk; the temptation to pump-prime the economy is," he said. Topics: economic-trends, trade, money-and-monetary-policy, china First posted July 10, 2018 13:38:39
By Séverine Arsène China has launched its "social credit system," hoping to increase social trust. But when value is calculated by opaque algorithms using vast amounts of personal data, what will happen to China, and indeed, what might it mean for the world? China is looking to restore “trust” and “sincerity” in society by making a digital “social credit system.” In this kaleidoscopic system of ratings and blacklists, good deeds are met with rewards, and bad deeds with punishments. China hopes this will cure many current ailments, including corruption in government procurement, a lack of food security and unequal access to healthcare. But the rest of the world can also learn something from this project; namely, the dangers of governing by grading people. When communist social control meets post-modern governance The compilation of digital files on individuals may be seen as a revival of the principle of the “dang’an,” a file containing one’s school, work, and political records. The dang’an has lost a lot of its impact on urban citizens’ lives with the advent of the market economy. But with its aim of sharing data across administrative sectors, the social credit system may bring new life to the device. The dang’an aside, a key idea behind the social credit system is that economic development is hampered by a lack of “trust” within society. There is a real need in China for reliable financial credit data to make loans and transactions more secure. Thus, the plan for the system puts great emphasis on economic misbehavior, such as failing to pay one’s bills. To develop the system, the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) in 2015 allowed eight companies to roll out experimental credit rating services based on their own data. But, as Martin Chorzempa of the Peterson Institute for International Economics argues, these companies’ rating services, such as Ant Financial’s Sesame Credit, go beyond their intended purpose. With business models based on integrated services, the companies see value in combining social media behavior with financial data, to produce an all-encompassing score of “trustworthiness.” From the PBOC’s point of view, the pilots raise regulatory issues on competition and conflict of interest. This is why the central bank has not yet issued formal authorization to these companies, leaving the experimental services in legal limbo. From a citizen’s perspective, this takes the social credit system to a whole new level. In this iteration, a person’s “social trustworthiness” depends on more than just their interactions with public authorities or financial capabilities. Even their personal, intimate behavior is part of the criteria. Good social credit means perks What makes this system particularly effective is that it aligns credit ratings with everyday benefits for citizens. In pilot municipalities like Rongcheng in Shandong province, the social credit system is incorporated into a reorganization of public services. A good credit rating entitles one to discounts on utilities, favorable loan rates, and waivers on deposits for bike rentals. Indeed, residents have apparently enjoyed more safety on the roads, as drivers and pedestrians adhere to rules for fear of losing credit points. On the other side, people who lose credit face disproportionate punishments. For instance, the Supreme People’s Court blacklists individuals for failing to repay their debts and prohibits them from traveling by plane or first-class trains. More importantly, these people’s names and personal details are published for everyone to see on a web portal. This blacklist can be picked up by the credit rating services, creating ripples across different aspects of the subjects’ lives, extending to their families and friends. This is where the social credit system differs from the old, secret dang’an. One’s social credit rating is meant to be open to the public. In principle, Sesame Credit is voluntary: customers need to opt in to get a rating. In exchange, it offers a wide range of benefits, such as fast-tracked visa applications and easier car rental. Just like how it is so hard to leave Facebook even after the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the advantages offered by these services make it very costly for users in China to opt out. The subtle yet coercive power of reputation in social networks thus spreads throughout people’s daily lives. The pitfalls of governance by ratings According to the official planning outline, the social credit system is intended to “stimulate the development of society and the progress of civilization.” But the criteria on which individuals are judged are largely determined by the localities, administrations, and businesses that put pilot programs in place. This means that Chinese citizens are not held to uniform standards – it all depends on where they live and what platforms they use. In effect, the criteria tend to bundle moral and political values together with laws and regulations. In Rongcheng, a citizen can be rewarded for being a good daughter-in-law or giving to charity. Sesame Credit is said to take into account consuming patterns such as purchasing diapers (a good thing), and entertainment habits such as playing online games (a bad thing). In most cases, credit systems reward very conservative values and conformist behavior. They also tend to discriminate against the poor, by rewarding consumption, and by putting particular emphasis on penalizing “deadbeat borrowers” and those who cannot pay their utility bills on time. Citizens have little say in the definition of criteria, despite the pervasive impact the social credit system has on their lives. In Suining county, Jiangsu province, an early pilot program assigned the population to four categories, A to D, according to obscure criteria. It triggered strong opposition from the population and had to be revamped. This case shows that technology doesn’t guarantee fairness, nor can it preempt resistance. And then there are the risks brought about by the technologies themselves, vulnerability to hacking and database breakdown being the most obvious. In addition, making myriad databases interoperable is an enormous challenge. Even if that could be overcome, there’s still the matter of data accuracy. The input and handling of data are prone to errors. If all social credit databases were linked, erroneous data in any one database would be replicated across different platforms. The people in charge of these systems find themselves in an unusual position of power. Without strong checks in place, there will be new opportunities for political surveillance, industrial espionage, and even blackmail and bribery. The all-encompassing scope of the social credit system has incited an endless stream of dystopian commentaries. Observers in other countries wonder whether to copy or fight it. Some worry about possible extra territorial effects, as foreign entities active in China may be ranked too, and as private companies are increasingly using the same tools to regulate access to public spaces. Much of this criticism misses the point. And challenges do remain. Implementing a countrywide social credit system that actually works will be an enormous technical and bureaucratic challenge. Moreover, pervasive surveillance may generate complications that could undermine social stability. What is sure is that experimentation of this type and scale is unprecedented. The world can learn from China’s social credit system what is at stake when governance is done through data collection and algorithmic ratings. We tend to underestimate how much of this is already going on around the world. For instance, U.S. agencies collect intrusive personal data to allocate and distribute welfare benefits, and they do so using biased algorithms that effectively increase inequalities. The social credit system should thus be a wake-up call. The world should acknowledge that data-processing technologies are political devices. They must be considered, transparent, and have strong and effective checks and balances. Read Next: China's New Credit Rating System Signals Gamification of Life Séverine Arsène is the managing editor of “AsiaGlobal Online” at the Asia Global Institute, The University of Hong Kong, and a former chief editor of “China Perspectives.” This article was originally published in AsiaGlobal Online, a Hong Kong-based source of Asian perspectives on global issues. The News Lens has been authorized to republish this article. TNL Editor: Nick Aspwinall
In his opening speech, Minister of National Defence Gen. Ngo Xuan Lich, who is also a Politburo member and Vice Secretary of the Central Military Commission, said in the first six months of this year, the whole army has had certain advantages to carry out military-defence tasks but also faced many difficulties and challenges requesting officers and soldiers to make stronger efforts to overcome. He asked representatives of army units to review task implementation over the last six months in a straightforward manner to clarify shortcomings, causes, and responsibility of each agency and unit. The outcomes of the conference will help encourage officers and soldiers in the whole army to make stronger efforts to fulfill the military-defence tasks for 2018, he added. At the event, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc highly valued the comprehensive outcomes and the resolve to perform duties by officers and soldiers. He affirmed that the major socio-economic attainments in 2017 and the last six months are greatly attributable to the Vietnam People’s Army (VPA). He said the Central Military Commission and the Defence Ministry have done a good job of giving military-defence advice to the Party and State. They have also proposed sound, timely and effective reactions to any circumstances that have emerged. The Government leader applauded their active preparation of a resolution and an implementation plan on the defence and military strategies of Vietnam. He also recognised the Defence Ministry’s contributions to the building of some draft laws, including the revised Law on National Defence, the draft Law on Vietnam Coast Guard, and the draft revised Law on Militia and Self-Defence Force. Particularly, the VPA has worked hard to improve its combat quality and strength, reform the training work, and promote the capacity of mastering modern weapons and technical equipment, especially in the forces of navy, air defence – air force, information and communication, and electronic warfare, PM Phuc said. Regarding military-defence tasks for the remaining six months, the Central Military Commission and the Defence Ministry are set to continue having a good grasp of situation and seriously complying with the Party’s leadership, the State’s management and the Government’s steering. They will also push ahead with ensuring combat readiness and improving effectiveness of the mass mobilisation work, especially in strategic and remote areas as well as ethnic minority and religious communities.
The global cost of cybercrime has now reached as much as $600 billion — about 0.8 percent of global GDP — according to a new report. More worrying than that figure may be the massive growth from 2014, when the same analysis showed the cost was only as much as $445 billion. That rapid increase is largely due to the lower cost of entry and advancements in technology such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, according to Ian Yip, the Asia Pacific chief technology officer at cybersecurity firm McAfee. Speaking with CNBC's "Street Signs" on Thursday, he explained how conducting criminal activity in cyberspace has gotten easier. Cybercrime is the only criminal enterprise that has "a help desk," he said, adding that would-be criminals "don't need to be technologically advanced" anymore to conduct a cyberattack. The analysis comes as McAfee and American think tank the Center for Strategic and International Studies releases a study entitled "The Economic Impact of Cybercrime—No Slowing Down," which assesses the gravity of what Yip called a cybercrime "pandemic." "When you look at the cost of cybercrime in relation to the worldwide internet economy — $4.2 trillion in 2016 — cybercrime can be viewed as a 14 percent tax on growth," McAfee said about the study. Certain nation states have come to be regarded as safe havens for cybercriminals, Yip said, adding that countries such as North Korea, Iran and Russia "tend to go after financial services," while "espionage activities" are more rampant in China. The report comes at a time when cryptocurrency hacks have been in the spotlight. A headline-grabbing example is the recent hack of Tokyo-based cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck, where almost 58 billion yen of NEM coins were stolen. That wasn't the first of its kind, but it was certainly one of the biggest thefts to have occurred. In response, cryptocurrency users and investors have voiced concerns about the need for higher standards and broad regulatory systems to safeguard their interests. The Asia Pacific region alone, Yip said, has lost $171 billion to cybercrime.
In the same way that barcodes on your groceries help stores know what's in your cart, DNA barcodes help biologists attach genetic labels to biological molecules to do their own tracking during research, including of how a cancerous tumor evolves, how organs develop or which drug candidates actually work. Unfortunately with current methods, many DNA barcodes have a reliability problem much worse than your corner grocer's. They contain errors about 10 percent of the time, making interpreting data tricky and limiting the kinds of experiments that can be reliably done. Now researchers at The University of Texas at Austin have developed a new method for correcting the errors that creep into DNA barcodes, yielding far more accurate results and paving the way for more ambitious medical research in the future. The team -- led by postdoctoral researcher John Hawkins, professor Bill Press and assistant professor Ilya Finkelstein -- demonstrated that their new method lowers the error rate in barcodes from 10 percent to 0.5 percent, while working extremely rapidly. They describe their method, called FREE (filled/truncated right end edit) barcodes, today in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The researchers have applied for a patent and are making the method freely available for academic and noncommercial use. With DNA barcodes, scientists can study how a cancerous tumor evolves, not just as a whole, but as a large collection of individual cells that evolve differently to reveal which cells are vulnerable to therapeutics and which aren't. Scientists interested in growing replacement organs for injured or sick people can use DNA barcodes to better understand how organs naturally develop. And researchers looking to screen millions of potential drugs to find one that binds to a certain molecule, and thus has the potential to treat a disease, can use DNA barcodes to find the proverbial needle in a haystack. "DNA barcodes are a part of a great deal of cutting-edge research in medicine and drug development, and to be able to improve the accuracy and efficiency of so many of these is very exciting," said Hawkins. "And maybe even more exciting is that now with these better barcodes, this allows us to have larger, more ambitious experiments that weren't possible before." A DNA barcode contains a short string of letters that equates to a unique code, using the four letters found in DNA: A, C, G and T. These barcodes are stuck onto molecules, such as cellular proteins or drug candidates, as a way of keeping track of where they all go, sometimes by the millions, and how they interact with other molecules. About one-tenth of the time, however, errors occur -- such as one letter being replaced by the wrong letter, an extra letter being inserted, or a letter being deleted -- potentially skewing the results of critical biomedical research. One of the keys to this new error-correction method is to select just the right barcodes from the beginning. This method involves choosing a string of letters for each barcode such that even if a small error creeps in -- say, a G is substituted for a C -- it will still be more like the intended barcode than any other. The method requires throwing out many possible strings of letters, but the researchers minimized this loss by borrowing an approach from computer science called sphere packing. "My contribution has been designing a way to find those barcodes such that even if there is an error in it, you know which original barcode it came from," Hawkins said. Alternative error-correcting methods for DNA barcodes, such as what are known as Levenshtein codes, require throwing away up to 100 times as many barcodes as with the FREE method, and they are up to 1,000 times slower to decode the results. As a result, whereas existing technology made projects with hundreds of millions of barcodes nearly impossible, the new technology allows for rapid, accurate results. Hawkins is a postdoctoral researcher in UT Austin's Department of Molecular Biosciences (MBS) and Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences (ICES). Press is a professor in the Department of Integrative Biology, Department of Computer Science and ICES. Finkelstein is an assistant professor in MBS and the Center for Systems and Synthetic Biology. This research was supported by a College of Natural Sciences Catalyst Award, as well as grants from the Welch Foundation and the National Institutes of Health. Computer scientists call problems such as these sphere-packing problems. A real-world example is finding a way to pack the most oranges into a crate. Here's how sphere packing works for DNA barcodes: For each string of letters of a certain length that you could possibly make, you first make a list of all the possible barcodes you could make by introducing one or two changes. If you imagine each barcode as a point in three-dimensional space, these other nearly identical barcodes form a cloud around that point. That cloud of barcodes can be enclosed in a shape called a decode sphere. Then, just like packing oranges into a crate, you can use an algorithm designed to pack the most spheres into a given space. Solving that problem is the same as maximizing the number of error-correcting barcodes you can pluck out of the universe of all possible barcodes of a given length. "For each barcode, I want to reserve all the words around that barcode that you can get to with a single error," John Hawkins said. "So if I pick the word AAA, then I also need to include in my sphere AAC. That's one change and so it's within a one-edit sphere. With barcodes, if you pack all the spheres into a space and none of them overlap, what that means is whenever you see a sequence with only one error, it's only in one of those spheres, so you know which sphere it is in. Therefore, you know which barcode was intended." Disclaimer: AAAS and EurekAlert! are not responsible for the accuracy of news releases posted to EurekAlert! by contributing institutions or for the use of any information through the EurekAlert system.
More workers will soon be regularized. This, as the Department of Labor and Employment said many establishments nationwide are now submitting their own regularization plan. “Various firms are now submitting their own regularization plans but still they are all up for inspection to ensure the rights of employees to security of tenure,” Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello III said in a statement. The labor chief said the release of the initial list of non-compliant establishments, which they submitted to the Office of the President made a huge impact on their campaign against illegal contractualizaton. In fact, Bello said some of the top non-compliant establishments have signified their intention to regularize their workers under their proposed regularization program. He said these include Jollibee Food Corporation with 14,960 affected workers, the Dole Philippines, Inc., with 10,521, and the Philsaga Mining Corporation with 6,624. Other establishments who already submitted their voluntarily regularization program include SM Malls, which target an estimated 10,000 regularized workers by the end of 2018, as well as the Century Pacific Food Inc. with around 7,000 workers. “We are expecting more regularized workers soon and I am optimistic that various establishments will comply with our directives. Also, inspections of establishments are ongoing to ensure their compliance with labor standards and existing labor laws,” Bello said. A total of 182,915 workers have been regularized through the intensified labor enforcement system of the labor department as of June 2018. Tags: establishments, Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello, regularization, the Department of Labor and Employment, workers
SEOUL (BLOOMBERG) - The North Korean athletes and performers taking part in the Winter Olympics in South Korea are central to Kim Jong Un's charm offensive against an international community worried over his nuclear ambitions. But the accounts of those who once lived in North Korea suggest a hard life for the isolated country's sports and entertainment ambassadors. During the Pyeongchang Games, Bloomberg spoke with two defectors and a former South Korean spy familiar with preparations for international events. They painted a stark picture of control, punishment and even sexual slavery. While their views are based on past incidents - some several years ago - there's no reason to believe practices north of the border have improved dramatically. Here they are their words: Kim Hyung Soo, 54, defected to South Korea in 2009 with his son, a skier who competed in the North Korean national league. The father is the co-head of "Stepping Stones," a non-governmental organisation that supports defectors. The son currently works for a "large company" in Suwon, home to the headquarters of Samsung Electronics. "In one word, athletes are Kim Jong Un's sports 'slaves.' Even the coaches are slaves to Kim Jong Un, and to the North Korean regime. Because in North Korea, Kim Jong Un and the regime is the entire world. The athletes and the cheerleaders, too. They are all Kim Jong Un and North Korea's slaves. The cheerleaders, too. They select people who are unlikely to defect, and people with loyal backgrounds. This factor is crucial from a very early stage." Lee So Yeon, 42, is a former military musician who fled in 2008. She now heads the New Korea Women's Union, a group that helps female defectors adjust to life in South Korea and provides treatment for those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. "North Korea's art troupe came here and performed with dances and songs, and it might seem like a fancy show on the outside. However, they also have to go to parties and provide sexual services, that sort of pain also follows. They go to the central Politburo party's events, and have to sleep with the people there, even if they don't want it. Those sorts of human-rights infringements take place, where women have to follow what they are told to do with their bodies." Kim Jung Bong, 61, is a former South Korean spy and head of the National Security Council. He now teaches foreign affairs and security studies at Hanzhong University. "When the athletes go back to Pyongyang, they will be shown the best buildings around town. For some, they might not have had the opportunity to see great facilities or eat good food. So, North Korea tries to show its athletes all these great things. North Korea makes an effort to plant an idea in their head, that everything that they saw in South Korea wasn't that wonderful. And then they are sent to a political school, or a political education system from one to three months for what they call 'moral education."'
Are African entertainment tech start-ups viable? Afrostream is the once-promising video-on-demand (VOD) service founded by the Cameroonian start-up creator, Tonjé Bakang. Last month, the company stopped signing up subscribers in the wake of Bakang announcing, via a Medium blog post (written in French and subsequently translated into English by Audrey Lang), that the business he founded in 2014 would be shutting down in France, the UK, Belgium, Luxem-bourg, Switzerland and in all 24 African countries it operated in – including Cameroon, Congo, Senegal and Togo. Afrostream’s collapse occurred despite the start-up attracting $4 million worth of venture capital since its inception. Since his open letter was published, Bakang has been lauded for his grace in not only providing a candid explanation for his business’ failure, but also for empowering many aspiring entertainment tech founders by sharing detailed insights into what it takes to succeed in that field. Given how far behind the digital adoption curve most African countries remain, Afrostream’s de-mise has unwittingly refuelled the on-going debate about the viability of entertainment tech on the continent. In the extreme, some critics argue that talented African founders ought to focus on solving “more pertinent" African problems. I recently caught up with Tegan Bristow, the director of the highly acclaimed Fak’ugesi African Digital Innovation Festival, which recently brought together a diverse array of creative digital media-makers, artists, entertainers and tech innovators for “an African celebration of digital technology, art, and culture”. I asked Bristow what she thinks of the assertion made by some that because Africa has bigger fish to fry, “funtech” should take a back seat. Her response was fierce. She told me that people who think that way don't account for the value of African culture and the fact that there are forms of knowledge that existed in Africa long before digital technology be-came a buzz-phrase. Bristow said she senses that there are those who are fearful of the implications of Africa fully and confidently asserting itself digitally. She maintains that real innovation cannot happen unless culture is fully embedded in its “knowledge forms”. Put simply, Bristow's argument is that if African cultural perspectives aren’t weaved into the continent’s digital transformation narrative, then there is little hope that digital solutions will address the so-called more pertinent problems that Africans face. Baziks Pulse is a neat music-streaming platform from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It was co-founded by the Congolese media personality Baya Ciamala and his UK-based countryman Harlem Mufoncol, to solve the senseless fact that for many Congolese people it used to be easier to access Western music than it was to source and stream local music. Chatting with these gentlemen, I got the impression that their decision to execute this particular start-up concept was less about taking on the likes of Spotify and Apple for a share of the global music-streaming market, and more about serving their people something great – something nec-essary. Of course, Ciamala and Mufoncol are all about the business too. They’re confident that the rest of the world will soon come to find Congolese music as irresistible as locals in the DRC do. (Hey Drake, I hope you’re reading this.) In the short to medium term, they are intent on growing the Baziks Pulse platform into the music streaming service of choice across all nine of the DRC’s neighbouring countries. When I asked Mufoncol to react to the spectacular demise of the Afrostream VOD service and to say whether the news shook his confidence in what their start-up is trying to achieve. He respond-ed matter-of-factly. “Tonjé is just a guy who tried something and came up short. He can always try again, fail again and fail better. I can't wait to see his next idea, because I get the impression that whatever he does next will be way better.” Can you imagine a world where you could use tiny snippets of your favourite songs to easily and pleasantly express yourself via text message – the way we all use emojis and GIFs? Well, thanks to George Asamani and his team at DooWapp, that unserious premise is now a reality. Asamani is an exceedingly well-travelled Ghanaian who currently calls Addis Ababa home. He has become accustomed to having to justify the merits of his award-winning “nice-to-have” software product wherever he goes. When Asamani and his founding team launched the beta version of DooWapp two years ago, he recalls the app being slightly ahead of its time in terms of the tech available to build emoji applications. The use of emojis wasn’t nearly as ubiquitous as it is now. Yet today, many of us can barely contemplate an emoji-less world. Asamani says that he has learnt not to be put off by people who simply don’t get it. The team at DooWapp have always had their sights on where things are going. Now, given how chat apps have vastly reshaped media consumption habits over the last few years, Asamani anticipates that DooWapp’s latest (soon-to-be-launched) product innovation – an emoji keyboard – will be a game changer for the music distribution industry. Go ahead and do you, Africa!
Dubai Municipality today responded to false rumours which claim the existence of 'plastic eggs', saying that the information is false. In a video circulating in the emirate on social media, the creator claims that when the eggs are fried a layer made of plastic is formed. In response to the inaccurate information propagated in the visual, the Food Safety Department at Dubai Municipality in a statement highlighted the fact that plastic solidifies at room temperature and melts at high temperatures. It further clarified that since the eggs in the video were liquid at room temperature, and solidified with frying, they could not have been made of plastic, as plastic melts under high temperatures. The Food Safety Department added that eggs form a different consistency when not very fresh, where the white becomes more liquid - as evident in the video - and may therefore take different forms due to the coagulation of egg protein at different temperatures, which is a natural process. The official clarification comes within the "Authentic News" initiative launched by Dubai Municipality, which aims to reduce the circulation of inaccurate information on social media, correct false news, and address malicious rumours.
Smartphone ban in NSW schools an option, as Government launches study into phone use Updated June 21, 2018 09:26:19 School children in New South Wales could be going back to the future, with the State Government looking at banning smartphones on school grounds and instead allowing only basic "old-style" mobile phones. Known as a "dumbphone" policy, a study into the proposal is being led by child psychologist Dr Michael Carr-Gregg after a review of smartphone use on school grounds across the state. "These are phones that don't have a camera, that don't access the internet," he said. "But they still afford young people the opportunity to communicate with their parents which I think is a legitimate role." The study, the first of its kind in Australia, will examine smartphone use in schools from kindergarten to Year 12. Prompted by concerns from parents, teachers and academics, Dr Carr-Gregg said the study also came on the back of increasing cyber-bullying complaints. "We know that it's disrupting learning in schools," he said. "And we're particularly interested in the impact of this in primary schools where an astonishing number of young people have access to Snapchat, Instagram and other social media which clearly raises questions about whether it's age appropriate. "I think the main issue is when you've got one-in-four kids under the age of 12 being stalked and harassed and abused online — we can't sit down and do nothing." NSW Education Minister Rob Stokes said the review would look into the risks and rewards of social media. "The review will look at everything, but I think the best way to respond to technology is not simply to ban it, we likely to need more nuanced responses." Dr Carr-Gregg said there was potential for smartphones to be used as a teaching device, and the study would asses all options. "There are teachers who have told me they can turn phones into literal Sale of the Century buzzers — so they can use the phones in quizzes," he said. "You can get instant answers, you do get wider access to information, you can get instant video access from using mobile phones, but it's got to be teacher directed." Topics: mobile-phones, education, schools, nsw First posted June 21, 2018 09:15:02
EAT FRESH? Horrified Subway customer claims to find maggot in her food | Mancunian Matters A woman instantly threw up when she discovered a maggot in her meatball marinara from Subway. Dior Pitt, a student at Liverpool John Moores University, had just finished eating her first bite of the sub when she discovered the creature late last week. She then called up Subway to complain, who offered her a replacement sandwich, before telling her that what she had discovered was “impossible”. Dior took to Facebook to vent her disgust and frustration. “I was casually eating my lunch and came across a full blown MAGGOT embedded in my meat ball after eating a meat ball first,” she said. “I was sick all over. “I don’t know about anyone else but I think that is damn right disgusting and not normal whatsoever.” Following her over-the-phone complaint, Dior went back into the Manchester-based branch to prove her claims, but was again frustrated as she was asked if she wanted a refund. This particular Subway branch was awarded a 4-star rating by the Food Standards Agency. Based on Cross Street in Manchester city centre, an independent food safety officer described their ‘very good’ hygienic food handling, ‘generally satisfactory’ cleanliness, and ‘good’ management of food safety. Subway was unavailable for comment. The company is already the UK's largest High Street fast-food chain and is looking to open another 500 stores by 2020. That would bring its total to 3,000 across the UK and Ireland - significantly ahead of its closest rivals, Greggs and McDonald's. Subway is run by about 900 franchisees, often local businessmen and women. For more on this story and many others, follow Mancunian Matters on Twitter and Facebook.
Elon Musk is predicting the future again, like he does. This time, the eccentric billionaire and CEO of Tesla, SpaceX, and others, took to Twitter to wax poetic about our pending demise at the hands of artificial intelligence (AI). The Twitter rant started with a Verge article. In the piece, Verge reporter James Vincent pulled highlights from a talk given by Putin to over a million Russian students via satellite link on Friday. During the 45 minute talk, Putin made it clear that AI offered the clearest path to world domination, although he promised to share its knowledge with the rest of the world if Russia ended up dominating the AI space. We’ll hold our breath. When it comes to Putin, the idea of putting artificially intelligent death machines in his hands is a little worrying. He is, after all, suspected to be involved in (at least) a couple dozen “mysterious” deaths and leads a country with a dizzying record of human rights violations. According to Musk: World War 3, Musk believes, is most likely caused by the nerds programming recipes for your Amazon Echo. Let that sink in for a minute. I’m not saying being a dick to that guy in high school is going to lead to a robot uprising, but having a John Connor-esque plan to come back and save your past self might not be all that bad of an idea. I’d argue it’s at least as likely as 90 percent of the scenarios featured on ‘Doomsday Preppers.’ Musk continued: And this is probably the scariest thought of all: our next major war may not even be started by humans. Instead, a computer somewhere could calculate the likelihood of a pending attack, and determine the only way to win is to nuke Canada, for some reason. Sorry Canada, Tim Horton’s and hockey just aren’t that important to AI, as it turns out. Rest at ease, though; AI isn’t anywhere near smart enough to make these kinds of decisions, at least not yet. And in the future, I’d imagine we’d have some sort of failsafe in place to ensure this kind of scenario doesn’t happen. But then again, we didn’t need AI to know what would happen if we unleashed President Trump on the world, and we did it anyway. Read next: Robot workers could lead to universal basic income in Hawaii
Sam Allardyce talked his way into trouble during his ill-fated spell as England manager. He may not be talking his way out of it during an increasingly unhappy time at Everton. After a sixth successive away defeat prompted the travelling Evertonians to turn on him for the first time, Allardyce claimed: “I feel worse than the fans.” He had the self-awareness to add “they won’t believe this” and, given the level of discontent, that seems a safe assertion; they won’t. The supporters had told him in no uncertain terms where to go when he substituted the goalscorer Cenk Tosun. Further vitriolic dissent followed the removal of the excellent Gylfi Sigurdsson. If there is a crisis of leadership at Goodison Park, Ashley Williams contributed. Allardyce’s chosen captain was sent off for elbowing Ashley Barnes. “Silly,” said his manager, who will fine the defender. “It sums up our day.” Once again, Everton contrived to undermine themselves but while Allardyce was offered ample indications their supporters want him consigned to the past, Burnley made a minor piece of history. Sean Dyche’s side had not tasted victory since the heady December night when they went fourth. This was the first time since 2010 they have won a Premier League game where they conceded first, a 53-game run ended by a combination of spirit, directness and managerial intervention. Dyche brought on Chris Wood for the ineffective Jeff Hendrick at the break and Burnley’s record signing justified the switch to 4-4-2 by heading in the winner. “I thought it worked,” said Dyche. In the process, Burnley beat their past. Michael Keane’s return to Turf Moor felt traumatic. Burnley pocketed £30m for his services last summer. Barnes escaped from his former team-mate to score the leveller. Wood outjumped the man whose sale helped finance his arrival for the decider. Nor did Keane’s centre-back sidekick fare any better. Williams was the first to lose Wood when Johann Berg Gudmundsson centred. “We decide not to defend a corner properly,” said Allardyce. Under other circumstances, he may have been congratulating himself on his decision-making, even if that still felt illogical. Rewind to the comparatively balmy days of early February and he suggested Tosun was struggling with the English weather. Brought in from the cold, but into the cold, the £27m striker opened his Everton account in an accomplished display to render it a mystery that he had not started for six weeks. “He worked extremely hard,” said Allardyce, who said the Turkey international’s unpopular departure came because he was tiring. Tosun’s graft had been allied with craft, a lovely curling pass bringing a chance for Theo Walcott. His goal had shown predatory expertise and the sort of aerial ability Allardyce tends to appreciate in a striker. Tosun headed in when the returning Séamus Coleman flicked on Walcott’s cross. “We lost it by not scoring the second goal,” Allardyce said. Walcott was the major culprit, but Sigurdsson was the creator in chief of a series of openings. He was incisive, inventive and influential, illustrating what he could do when Wayne Rooney was benched. Yet Everton faded. “To see the players underperform in the second half is very disappointing,” Allardyce added. The one exception was Jordan Pickford, who pressed his case to be England’s World Cup goalkeeper in front of the watching Gareth Southgate. He amounted to a one-man resistance, making two terrific saves from Barnes, thwarting Ben Mee and denying Aaron Lennon a goal against his old employers. But Burnley were relentless. Matthew Lowton created three wonderful chances and a through ball was weighted and curled perfectly for the onrushing Barnes to level. “As good a pass as you will see,” said Dyche. It led to a first win in 13 attempts. “Facts are facts,” the Burnley manager added. “It’s been a tough run.” Now, however, Burnley should be safe. “It is a big marker to get to 40 [points] with nine games to go,” Dyche added. Burnley’s future seems secure, Allardyce’s rather less so.
A former UKIP councillor has been found guilty of murdering his wife, after he had an affair with their son's partner. Stephen Searle, 64, strangled his wife Anne at their home in Stowmarket, Suffolk, on 30 December. The ex-Royal Marine had denied killing Mrs Searle, 62, after she found out about the affair with Anastasia Pomiateeva. He was found guilty by a jury at Ipswich Crown Court and will be sentenced on Wednesday. A 64-year-old man has been convicted of murdering his wife in #Stowmarket last year. On Saturday 30 December 2017, police received a call from Stephen Searle who said he had just killed his wife. Judge Mr Justice Green said Searle's "act of infidelity in one way or another led to this". It took the jury three-and-a-half hours to find him guilty of murder, after a six-day trial. Searle had previously told a jury his wife had uncovered his affair with Ms Pomiateeva, who is the mother to at least one of their grandchildren, months before she died. He claimed that on the day of her death, his wife of 45 years had attacked him with a knife following an argument and was killed in the struggle that ensued. He had told the court he did not intend to murder her, failed to call an ambulance after the attack and instead "sat there like a bloody idiot". But in a 999 call that was played to jurors, Searle could be heard telling police: "I've just killed my wife." Prosecutor Andrew Jackson said Searle had probably placed his wife in a choke hold he had knowledge of from his military training following "yet another row". He also told the court that the discovery of the affair "would have put considerable strain on the marriage". A post-mortem examination recorded that Mrs Searle died of compression of the neck. Forensic pathologist Dr Benjamin Swift said she would have lost consciousness after about eight to 15 seconds of pressure to the neck, and death required further sustained pressure for a period of minutes. Days before her death, Mrs Searle had posted a message on Facebook saying: "Happy Christmas... I hope I will still be here in 2018. We will see." In a victim impact statement, one of Searle's sons, also called Stephen, said: "Not only have I lost my mum, but because of what he's done I've lost my dad too." Det Ch Supt Eamonn Bridger said: "Anne Searle's death was a tragic crime and our sympathies remain with her family and friends." Following the verdict, former politician Bill Mountford told BBC Suffolk he still considered Searle "a friend", adding "these things happen". Mr Mountford, who was leader of UKIP at Suffolk County Council when Searle was a councillor, said: "I still regard Steve as fundamentally a decent man who has found himself in circumstances beyond his control. "I'm not condoning it in any way but I was very, very sad to hear of Steve's conviction. "I'm well aware domestic disputes can get out of hand but I feel equally sorry for both Steve and his now deceased wife."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The head of a federal commission who has helped U.S. states protect election systems from possible cyber attacks by Russia or others is being replaced at the behest of Republican House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan and the White House. Matthew Masterson, a member of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission who currently serves as its chairman, has been passed over for a second four-year term as one of the agency’s four commissioners. “The appointment expired in December and we are going in a different direction for our nomination. We nominate people for a variety of positions and generally speaking choose our own folks,” AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Ryan, said by email on Thursday. Strong rejected the notion that Masterson was being removed or shoved aside, characterizing the change as routine. The commissioner post that Masterson, a former Ohio state official, currently holds is picked by the House speaker and formally nominated by the president. The three other commissioners are recommended by other congressional leaders. Masterson has been a popular figure among state election officials, many of whom have praised his expertise and leadership on cyber security issues and expressed chagrin at his pending departure. The agency was created by Congress in 2002 to assist states in complying with federal election standards. The action raises fresh questions over the degree to which Republican President Donald Trump and his fellow Republicans who control Congress are taking steps to protect the security of American elections, and some state officials have accused them of doing too little to address the threat. U.S. voters in November will go to the polls in midterm elections, which American intelligence officials have warned could be targeted by Russia or others seeking to disrupt the process. There is intense scrutiny of the security of U.S. election systems after a 2016 presidential race in which Russia interfered, according to American intelligence agencies, to try to help Trump win with presidency. Trump in the past has been publicly sceptical about Russian election meddling. Some Republicans over the years have sought to eliminate or reduce the Election Assistance Commission, arguing that it represents a federal overreach into the role of states in running elections. Masterson originally was picked by former Speaker John Boehner, a Republican and fellow Ohioan, and nominated by former President Barack Obama, a Democrat, before being confirmed unanimously by the U.S. Senate in 2014. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) speaks at a news conference with Republican leaders after a closed conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., February 14, 2018. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas A White House spokeswoman declined to comment. Masterson also declined to comment. Masterson is expected to remain a commissioner until his replacement is chosen by Ryan, formally nominated by Trump and confirmed by the Senate. He already was due to give up his rotating chairmanship this month. ‘PRETTY REMARKABLE’ Masterson has spent the last year as the commission’s chairman, focussing largely on election cyber security, state election officials said. Twenty-one states experienced probing of their systems by Russian hackers during the 2016 election, according to U.S. officials. Though a small number of networks were compromised, voting machines were not directly affected and there remains no evidence any vote was altered, according to U.S. officials and security experts. “It is pretty remarkable that in this environment, given the importance of this issue, that the speaker would choose this moment to not reappoint the person doing the most work in this area,” said Judd Choate, Colorado’s election director and the immediate past president of the National Association of State Election Directors. The commission was formed in the aftermath of the 2000 U.S. presidential election won by Republican George W. Bush that came down to disputed paper ballots cast in Florida. Its responsibilities include maintaining voluntary guidelines for voting systems, including cyber security standards, that most states use when purchasing new voting equipment. Since the 2016 election, almost all 50 states have taken steps to purchase more secure equipment, expand the use of paper ballots, improve cyber training or seek federal assistance, according to groups that track election security. U.S. intelligence officials have described the targeting of state election systems as part of a wide-ranging effort by Moscow that also included propaganda efforts and hacking to sow discord during the 2016 campaign, boost Trump and disparage his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. Special counsel Robert Mueller’s office last Friday indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies for their alleged involvement in a criminal and espionage conspiracy to tamper with the 2016 election. Under law, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate and House each recommend one commissioner to be nominated by the president to fill the agency’s four spots. The Republican-led House Administration Committee last year passed a measure that would terminate the agency on the grounds that it has outlived its usefulness.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump has called a meeting early next week with key senators and Cabinet officials to discuss potential changes to biofuels policy, which is coming under increasing pressure after a Pennsylvania refiner blamed the regulation for its bankruptcy, according to four sources familiar with the matter. The meeting comes as the oil industry and corn lobby – powerful forces in Washington – clash over the future of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a decade-old regulation that requires refiners to cover the cost of mixing biofuels such as corn-based ethanol into their fuel. Trump’s engagement reflects the high political stakes of protecting jobs in a key electoral state. Oil refiner Philadelphia Energy Solutions (PES), which employs more than a thousand people in Philadelphia, declared bankruptcy last month and blamed the regulation for its demise. The meeting, scheduled for Tuesday, will include Republican Senators Ted Cruz of Texas, Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst of Iowa, along with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, and potentially Energy Secretary Rick Perry, according to the four sources, who asked not to be named because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. One source said the meeting would focus on short-term solutions to help PES continue operating. PES is asking a bankruptcy judge to shed roughly $350 million of its current RFS compliance costs, owed to the EPA which administers the program, as part of its restructuring package. The other sources said the meeting will consider whether to cap prices for biofuel credits, let higher-ethanol blends be sold all year, and efforts to get speculators out of the market. Officials at the EPA, Agriculture Department, and Energy Department declined to comment. A White House official, Kelly Love, said she had no announcement on the matter at this time. The offices of Cruz, Ernst and Grassley did not immediately return requests for comment. The sources said the options moving forward would be constrained by political and legal realities that have derailed previous efforts at reform. FILE PHOTO: The Philadelphia Energy Solutions oil refinery owned by The Carlyle Group is seen at sunset in Philadelphia March 26, 2014. Picture taken March 26, 2014. REUTERS/David M. Parrott/File Photo The Trump administration has already considered changes to the RFS sought by refiners this year - including reducing the amount of biofuels required to be blended annually under the regulation, or shifting the responsibility for blending to supply terminals - only to retreat in the face of opposition from corn-state lawmakers. The EPA is expected to weigh in officially in the coming weeks on PES’s request to the bankruptcy judge to be released from its compliance obligations. But any such move would likely draw a backlash from other U.S. refiners, who have no hope of receiving a waiver. FILE PHOTO: The Philadelphia Energy Solutions oil refinery is seen at sunset in front of the Philadelphia skyline in Pennysylvania, U.S., March 24, 2014. REUTERS/David M. Parrott/File Photo Under the RFS, refiners must earn or purchase blending credits called RINs to prove they are complying with the regulation. As biofuels volumes quotas have increased, so have prices for the credits - meaning refiners that invested in blending facilities have benefited while those that have not, such as PES, have had to pay up. PES said its RFS compliance costs exceeded its payroll last year, and ranked only behind the cost of purchasing crude oil. Other issues may have contributed to PES’s financial difficulties. Reuters reported that PES’s investor backers withdrew from the company more than $594 million in a series of dividend-style distributions since 2012, even as regional refining economics slumped. Regulators and lawmakers have been considering how to cut the cost of the RFS to the oil industry. In recent months, for example, the EPA has contemplated expanding its use of an exemption available to small refineries - a move that would likely push down RIN prices, but which both the oil and corn industries have said would be unfair. Cruz last year proposed limiting the price of RINs to 10 cents, a fraction of their current value – an idea that was roundly rejected by the ethanol industry as a disincentive for new ethanol blending infrastructure investment. Senator John Cornyn, also a Texas Republican, is preparing draft legislation to overhaul the RFS in Congress that would include the creation of a new specialized RIN credit intended to push down prices - but it too faces resistance from both the corn and oil lobbies.
PESHAWAR: The son of a poor-stricken farmer in Swabi on Sunday topped the province-wide Educational Testing and Evaluating Agency (ETEA) engineering entrance test in Swabi, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. Liaquat Ali who hails from the rural Marghuz village remained outstanding among 15,864 students of the province, beating private schools position holders and clinched top position in the test. Ali, a student of Government Centennial Model High School, obtained 605 out of 800 marks in the test held under the University of Engineering and Technology Peshawar. The student represented the board of intermediate and secondary education Mardan. According to the results declared on Monday, only two students scored above 600 marks out of a total 800 in which Ali, the other one being Abbottabad’s Jamal Ahmad who acquired 601 marks. Muhammad Umer Saleem of the same education board secured 591 marks. 28 other students attained marks between 500 to 599, while 219 others secured 400 to 499 marks. AJK students to get free education in Chinese universities Similarly, 845 students got marks between 300 to 399, around 1800 students between 200 to 299 marks while the remaining could attain below 200 marks. Talking to The Express Tribune, Ali shared that he belongs to a very destitute family with his father working as a farmer in one of the villages. He has two brothers and a sister while the family depends on their father’s earning. “I was throughout a topper in my school,” Ali said and added that so far he hasn’t been rewarded from the government or by his school’s administration. Following his outstanding results, Ali secured scholarship at Quaid-e-Azam College, Swabi and is now student of FSc. “I am happy to have topped the entrance test, but as the same time I am worried how I will manage the university admission fee and other expenditures,” he said. Emphasising that all students can earn positions if they work hard, Ali revealed he had also topped secondary school certificate examination, bagging 953 out of 1100 marks despite poverty and fewer opportunities. Highlighting that destitute students are hardworking but they require opportunities, Ali urged the government to improve standard at government schools and improve the facilities.
Ekiti State Governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has warned the management of the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, against illegal recruitment of new workers to create problems for the incoming administration. Fayemi warned the management led by the College Provost, Prof. Mojisola Oyarekua, to resist an alleged directive to carry out massive employment of cronies of Governor Ayo Fayose in violation of due process. A statement on Monday signed by Director, Fayemi Media Office, Wole Olujobi, wondered why an administration that has failed to employ one single individual in the last four years now want to employ thousands in the college and other institutions with few days left in office. The statement said “it is dangerous to erect political structures in non-partisan institutions of government, warning that the incoming administration will not inherit institutions that will be threatened by political cleavages.” The statement said: We want to caution the management of the college to stay clear of the contrived sabotage mission by Governor Ayodele Fayose to cripple the administration of the Governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, from the outset. “There are similar plans by Fayose for other government’s agencies and institutions where he plans to dispense favours to only members of his party; we want to warn that political consideration in public recruitment scheme is illegal and will be so treated on assumption of office. “We are aware of a long list of cronies of Governor Ayodele Fayose who are forced on the management of the College of Education and waiting to be employed in their large numbers on the orders of the governor. “We wish to caution the management of the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, and other institutions of government on the danger of conniving with an administration that has refused to employ just one man in about four years to now choose to embark on mass recruitment of supporters for the purpose of crippling the incoming administration at a time that Fayose’s administration is owing backlog of salaries with no hope of payment till the end of his administration. “We hereby alert the people of Ekiti State to this clear act of sabotage which the management of the college is trying to execute on behalf of Governor Fayose to intentionally cripple the smooth running of the administration of the college when the new administration comes on board, particularly coming at the time that subvention to the college has not been paid for a long while research and capital funding has been abandoned. “The recruitment becomes more illegal, as the beneficiaries of the exercise are mainly Fayose’s cronies who he wants to compensate after deceiving them for three years. “We do not believe in political affiliation in the consideration of people for employment, therefore, what is going on in the College of Education is clearly a political exercise in a non-partisan setting, and to that extent, the exercise is political and, therefore, illegal because it is wrong to turn the college to the enclave of one political party. “In the last dispensation, Fayemi engaged Ekiti people in social security scheme, Youths in Commercial Agricultural Development (YCAD), Volunteer Corps, EKSTMA and Peace Corps, among other schemes, based on merit and without consideration for political leaning. “This is the way to go and we hope to continue on this path when we assume office to fill all necessary vacancies and create new job opportunities for all Ekiti people based on merit irrespective of political affiliation. “We therefore advise the management of the college and other institutions of government to stay clear of the sabotage mission by Fayose and strive to ensure that the present status quo of salary payment default is resolved in favour of the hard-working workers, teaching and non-teaching staff, by paying all their salary arrears and other entitlements, including payment of subventions and capital spending, instead of embarking on political patronage in appointments that will further worsen crises for our institutions.”
Move over malted barley — craft brewers are on the hunt for ingredients that most beer makers try to avoid. In modern brewing it is easier to work with a single strain of yeast to control the flavour, but some craft brewers are literally going wild. They are using yeasts and bacteria sourced locally from nature to ferment in their beer. For Topher Boehm from Sydney's Wildflower Brewing the beer making process begins with native flowers he finds across New South Wales — acacias, dandelions, grevilleas and proteas. Most beer is made using strains of yeast that have been domesticated in a laboratory over time. The predictability of those strains is why they are the preferred option for most brewers, large and small. In contrast, working with wild strains, such as those sourced from nature, can be tricky and lead to big losses. "In building our business plan we expect at least 10-15 per cent of our finished beer to go down the drain," Mr Boehm said. Failed sours are still safe to drink, but the taste is not always desirable. But a common trait in so-called 'wild ales' that is surprisingly desirable amongst a small handful of craft brewers in Australia is sourness. "Sour beer is made with bacteria that is going to drop the PH of the beer," Mr Boehm said. "Those bacteria are generally lactic acid-producing bacteria, the ones in yogurt, sourdough and sauerkraut. There are about 10 craft brewers in Australia specialising in producing sour beers, while about 50 are dabbling in it. Paul Holgate, from Holgate Brewhouse in Victoria, has a small range of sours, and is collecting bacteria off blackberries in the Macedon Ranges to produce a new line. "It's interesting because I spent most of my brewing life trying to keep these critters [wild bacteria] out of the brewing process," he said. "I've taken some swabs of local blackberries, grown them on plates and tried to make some beer in small lots, although I haven't commercialised it yet." Sour beer is often fermented in barrels because they contain more bacteria and flavours. This helps Mr Holgate get even more local bacteria into his beer to help it sour. "A lot of people in the United States are using bourbon barrels because the US has a big bourbon industry, but I prefer to use what is local to me. So we are using pinot noir barrels," he said. According to the Brewers Association in the United States, supermarket data shows the sale of sour beer is rapidly increasing, quadrupling from 45,000 cases sold in 2015 to 245,000 in 2016. "Sales have clearly grow but the full extent is hard to measure because many sours are sold in tasting rooms, breweries or in speciality releases," Bart Watson, chief economist at the Brewers Association, said. Wild yeast could be beer equivalent of Champagne In the same way that premium winemakers rely on the reputation of their growing region to sell their product, like Champagne in France, using wild yeast and bacteria in beer means brewers could soon do something similar. "You can make a beer that nobody else can make because of your individual local conditions. You can add some of that local 'terroir'," he said. Terroir is a term used in the wine industry to refer to the concoction of environmental conditions, such as climate and soil, that gives wine from a particular region its distinct flavour and smell. It is the reason Topher Boehm got into the industry. "We wanted to make a beer that wasn't just made in a certain place but was actually a product of that place," he said. "As an American I was absolutely floored by the beauty of the native flora here in Australia. "I thought the uniqueness of that would be seen in the microflora [bacteria] here as well." Sour beer 2.0 Sour beer — initially an accident — is not new, but is now experiencing a renaissance. It was the norm hundreds of years ago in Europe when a lack of knowledge about pasteurisation meant brewers struggled to keep out wild bacteria. Sour beers are still popular in countries like Belgium. However, the sour beers emerging out of Australia and the United States come with a modern twist. "We are seeing the development of a new type of category with a blurring of lines." New brewing techniques are also far from traditional. The original sour beers were brewed over a long ageing period, often over one to two years, whereas modern brewers can rapidly speed up the process. New sours are also targeted at less hardcore beer drinkers, given they are lighter and sometimes compared to tasting like sparkling wine or cider. "We see tartness in all elements of food and drink, so adding an extra element to sour beer with fruit is a good refresher, similar to how we use citrus in salad," Mr Boehm said. "Sour beer is a very small section of the already small craft beer section, so in a way in can be seen as the niche of a niche. But the demand for it is growing in Australia."
The Tourism Authority of Thailand’s aim of creating a wide variety of attractions is focusing this month on culture and cuisine with the ‘Thai-Eat-Art-Gastronomy’ festival, set to be held in Bangsaen, Chonburi from June 29 – July 1. The event will showcase traditional Thai cuisine to the world while providing a cultural experience to visitors and give insights into how the local foodstuffs are created and sourced. Over 100 booths will be available at Laem Taen in Bangsaen for visitors to fully indulge in traditional Thai goods from all around the region. Five regions will have their own quota of food-stalls offering a range of tasty goods while more with 60 local shops and vendors will be invited for the occasion to display their goods and products. This exhibition of gastronomy tourism will offer visitors a better insight into the art of Thai food and culture and the activity zone, with Thai traditional music showcased and played, will host live cooking stations with experienced chefs offering tips and advice on food creation. It promises to be an opportunity not to be missed for those interested in the food, culture and tradition of Thailand all encompassed in one big event. The Thai-Eat-Art-Gastronomy is expected to attract a good number of tourists. For more information check Thai Eat Art Gastronomy on Facebook or call TAT Pattaya on 038 482 750 or the TAT Hotline at 1672.
The world is getting flooded with tiny (creepy) robots that can crawl all over the place, including your clothes. The latest one, created by scientists at Harvard University, uses artificial scaly skins to move forward — kind of like a snake. The soft robot is just a silicone rubber tube. But what’s special about it is its skin — a thin, stretchable plastic sheet that’s been cut with a laser. The cuts, in the shape of triangles or circles, resemble the scales on the skin of snakes. When air is pumped into the tube, the robot expands and contracts, allowing the scales to pop up, anchor against the surface, and pull the robot forward. In a study published today in Science Robotics, scientists showed that the artificial snakeskins work against rough surfaces like asphalt and concrete. In the future, these robots could be scaled down and used to deliver drugs inside arteries, or in disaster situations where bots need to crawl inside narrow spaces. Nature has inspired all kinds of robots before. Octopi have served as squishy muses many times, either because of their amazing camouflage or their wiggly shapes. Plants and salamanders have also played their part. The inspiration for today’s bots comes from snakes, which use scales on their skin to propel themselves. To mimic the snakeskin, Ahmad Rafsanjani, a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard University, resorted to the Japanese art of paper cutting, called kirigami. He used lasers to make cuts in thin plastic sheets in the shape of lines, triangles, circles, or trapezoids. The skins were then wrapped around silicone rubber tubes powered by air. (The air was either pumped through tubes, or thanks to a small control unit with onboard pump, battery, and sensors.) The robot works this way: When the tube is inflated or deflated, it stretches forward, allowing the scales to pop up and then grab onto the surface. The friction generated in the process propels the bot forward (but not backward; the researchers are still trying to figure that out). The scaly skin is easy to make, and it saves engineers the pain of making actuators to enable movement. Rafsanjani and his colleagues also tried different scale shapes: the trapezoidal ones were the most effective, allowing for a longer stride. The mechanics seem simple enough, but it actually took a year and a half to perfect the snake-y crawler. Rafsanjani made hundreds of skins and about 50 soft robots before it all worked out. “It takes a lot of design details to achieve such a simple motion,” he tells The Verge. The first prototypes just wouldn’t crawl: the tubes would expand upward or the skin was too thick. But finally, Rafsanjani and his colleagues were able to create just the right scaly skins to mimic snakes. “It was very exciting,” he says. “It was a very happy moment.”
WICHITA FALLS (KFDX/KJTL) - A former Wichita Falls police officer pleaded guilty to running a retail theft ring using drug addicts to steal high dollar items from stores in multiple cities in Texoma and around the metroplex and charges on three family members have been dismissed. Scott Bradley Higgins, 54, pleaded guilty Thursday morning to organized retail theft and money laundering. His sentencing is delayed until August 10. Scott's son, Spencer, was also charged with organized retail theft and money laundering, Angelique Renea Higgins, 50, and her daughter Sydney Leanne Stockton, 30, who was a WFISD librarian were charged with organized retail theft. Scott reportedly wanted to free his family from the charges, all four people had bonded out of jail. The arrests came after a year-long Texas Department of Public Safety investigation. Authorities believe Scott Higgins paid local drug addicts to steal high-dollar items from places like Walmart, Target, Home Depot and Lowe's. Stolen items would be posted on websites like Amazon or eBay for sale. Bank statements obtained during the investigation showed more than $125,000 in Scott Higgins accounts came from this alleged scheme. Also, several accounts in all four of their names had thousands of dollars deposited.
FEATURE — Whether it’s confusion over when you should be taking birth control to concern about it possibly causing cancer, there are many misunderstandings when it comes to female contraception. Read on for nine of the most common myths and the actual facts that go along with them. Myth 1: Hormones cause cancer. While it is true that hormones are related to certain cancers (breast, cervical, uterine, melanoma), it is a myth that hormones increase your risk of getting or dying from cancer. Talking specifically about birth control pills, the very slight increase in the risk of breast and cervical cancers is offset by decreases in ovarian and uterine cancers. In the average low-risk woman, this is simply a non-issue. Myth 2: Women who have never had children can’t get an IUD. The greatest worry is the insertion process. The key is to have someone place it that is very experienced and can put a numbing block in before. In experienced hands, IUD insertion is quick and easy, even for women who have never been pregnant. Myth 3: Using hormonal birth control will affect your future fertility. The effects of almost all types of birth control are immediately reversible. The only one that takes longer is the injection (Depo-Provera), which can take 3-6 months to leave your system entirely – but it eventually will. Myth 4: All birth control types make acne worse. Well, this isn’t exactly a myth, because some types do, especially those that are progestin only, such as Nexplanon, progesterone IUDs and Depo-Provera. But birth control pills are actually a very good treatment for acne. Myth 5: Birth control pills make me gain weight. This is a myth – at least if you are talking about increased body fat. You can retain some sodium and fluid, 2-3 pounds worth, in the first few months of starting a new hormonal contraceptive, but those results are temporary. I will add, though, that the progestin-only products are much more likely to be associated with unwanted weight gain in 10-25 percent of users. Myth 6: I’m breastfeeding, so I can’t get pregnant. It is less likely, but it is absolutely possible to get pregnant while breasfeeding, even before you have your first menstrual cycle after delivery. Myth 7: It’s unhealthy to use any type of birth control that skips your period. It’s not unhealthy and can actually be a tremendous advantage for women who are burdened with heavy, painful, inconvenient cycles. No types of birth control that allow women to skip cycles have any negative future effects on fertility. Myth 8: Your body occasionally needs a break from birth control. This is a myth. Taking a break is not healthy, is unnecessary and can result in an unplanned pregnancy. Myth 9: Once you are in your 40s you don’t need to use birth control anymore. This is a myth. I have seen more women than I can count get pregnant out of the blue in their 40s when they have not used protection for over a decade. It may not be likely, but it absolutely can and does happen. How much protection you should use depends on how much of a disaster it would be to accidentally get pregnant. Hopefully this helps clear up some of the myths and mysteries. If you have more questions about contraceptive options, don’t hesitate to talk to your doctor or care provider. Email: news@stgnews.com Twitter: @STGnews Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2018, all rights reserved. Dr. Sean F. Lynn is board-certified in obstetrics and gynecology with over 20 years of clinical experience in the field. He has twice been awarded the Golden Starfish Award, an award for which he was nominated by staff and actual patients for goting above-and-beyond in patient care. He has delivered over 7,500 babies in his career and currently focuses his practice at St. George Women's Health Center, 965 E. 700 South, St. George, Utah, on offering surgical and general health care for women.
Ousman Colley, a former Gambian International will organise a mega concert with Nigerian superstar, Tekno to raise funds to invest in sports. This was disclosed at a press briefing held at the Cave along the Kairaba Avenue on Wednesday evening. Mr. Colley is a professional Gambian star who was behind the Sidiki Jabateh’s concert sometime this year and will organise one with Tekno slated for May 12th, 2018 at the Independence Stadium. In his statements, Ousman Colley called Ous Colley said he is the proprietor of OK & A Entertainment and also OK & A Sports Management Agency. He said the Entertainment is a platform to raise fund to support sports in the country by investing the proceeds in sports. “I am a professional player and I am still playing but I came back to give back to the society,” he said. He said his Sports Management Agency will be scouting out players, sign them and find clubs for them in the foreign countries especially Europe. He confirmed that the Agency has sent three players on loan to Senegal. The proceeds from the Tekno Concert slated for 12th May, 2018, will be used to sponsor the fees of the players including their ticketing and the players will not pay any butut on anything. “My Agency if I see a good player, I will take the whole responsibility whatever it takes and not even a penny (butut) will come from the player” he said. Ous Colley also revealed that he took Steve Biko Football Club to make the club more professional. The tickets for the events is D500 for advance, D700 at the gate and D1000. He promised to do all he could to send as many Gambian players to abroad as he could to enable them play in international leagues.
General Motors warned on Friday that expansive US tariffs on imported vehicles being considered by the Trump administration could lead to “a smaller GM” and risks isolating US businesses from the global market. The car giant – which employs 180,000 people worldwide – became the second famous US brand this week to warn of the dangers of Trump’s escalating trade dispute. This week Harley-Davidson said the levies would force it to relocate some production overseas – a warning that drew a furious response from Donald Trump. The Trump administration launched an investigation into whether imported vehicles posed a national security threat in May, and Trump has repeatedly threatened to quickly impose a 20% import tariff on vehicles. The largest US automaker said in comments filed on Friday with the US commerce department that overly broad tariffs could “lead to a smaller GM, a reduced presence at home and abroad for this iconic American company, and risk less – not more – US jobs”. GM said the tariffs could hike vehicle prices and reduce sales. Even if automakers opted not to pass on higher costs “this could still lead to less investment, fewer jobs, and lower wages for our employees. The carry-on effect of less investment and a smaller workforce could delay breakthrough technologies.” Toyota filed separate comments opposing the tariffs on Friday saying they would “threaten US manufacturing, jobs, exports, and economic prosperity”. The company noted that Trump has repeatedly praised the automaker for investing in the United States, including a new $1.3bn joint venture assembly plant in Alabama with Mazda. “These investments reflect our confidence in the US economy and in the power of the administration’s tax cuts,” Toyota said in its submission. Toyota noted that international automakers assembling vehicles in the United States are based in countries including Japan, German and South Korea “that are America’s closest allies”. The company added it “is difficult to foresee a situation in which any of them would engage in an armed conflict with the US or cut off supplies of defense materials, and if they did, the United States would have an easy recourse of simply seizing their US plants”. The car companies’ comments come after groups representing America’s largest retailers, car manufacturers and the agriculture industry warned of the “serious negative economic impacts” of the trade dispute and called on Congress to support a bill that would rein in the president’s power to impose tariffs by invoking a threat to national security. “It is now also increasingly clear that the way the steel and aluminium tariffs have been used will result in retaliatory tariffs from our largest trading partners and closest allies, and that retaliation will have serious negative economic impacts on the United States,” they wrote in a letter to US senators.
Former President George W. Bush said Thursday that there is "pretty clear evidence that the Russians meddled" in the 2016 presidential election, a seeming rebuke of President Donald Trump, who has at times questioned the intelligence community’s assessment that the Kremlin is to blame. "Whether [Russia] affected the outcome is another question," Bush said at a conference in Abu Dhabi, according to a USA Today report. "It’s problematic that a foreign nation is involved in our election system. Our democracy is only as good as people trust the results.” The former president did not mention Trump by name, but Bush’s unequivocal statements on the issue ran counter to the rhetoric that has emerged from the Trump administration. Trump himself was slow to accept the intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia had operated an interference campaign targeting the 2016 election with the aim of aiding his candidacy, insisting for a time that it was China or even a "400-pound person sitting in bed." The president has since conceded that the Russian government was behind the cyber campaign but has been decidedly soft in his rhetoric toward the Kremlin, especially relative to his get-tough approach to foreign policy elsewhere around the globe. Trump’s stance on Russia has puzzled U.S. allies and lawmakers from both parties. Of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who U.S. intelligence agencies have suggested knew of and directed the 2016 meddling effort, Bush said "He can’t think, ‘How can we both win?’ He only thinks, ‘How do I win, you lose?’” "He’s got a chip on his shoulder. The reason he does is because ... the demise of the Soviet Union troubles him,” the former president said. “Therefore, much of his moves [are] to regain Soviet hegemony. ... That’s why NATO is very important."
LONDON: Global oil demand is expected to pick up this year but supply is growing at a faster pace, leading to a rise in inventories in the first quarter of 2018, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said on Thursday. The IEA raised its forecast for oil demand this year to 99.3 million barrels per day (bpd) from 97.8 million bpd in 2017. Commercial oil inventories in industrialised OECD nations rose in January for the first time in seven months to 2.871 billion barrels, 53 million barrels above their five-year average, the Paris-based IEA said. The January increase of 18 million barrels over the December inventory level was roughly half the size of rises normally seen at this time of year, according to the agency, which advises Western governments on energy policy. But it said Venezuela, where an economic crisis has cut oil production by 50 per cent in two years to lows not seen in more than a decade, could still trigger a renewed drawdown in stocks. "With supply from Venezuela clearly vulnerable to an accelerated decline, without any compensatory change from other producers, it is possible that the Latin American country could be the final element that tips the market decisively into deficit," the IEA said. In a bid to drain inventories, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and several other producers have been implementing a deal to cut output by about 1.8 million bpd from January 2017 until the end of 2018. Assuming no change in Opec output for the rest of the year, the IEA said it expected a small increase in OECD inventories in the first quarter of 2018 with declines after that. The agency said it expected supply from non-Opec nations to grow by 1.8 million bpd in 2018 to 59.9 million bpd, led by the United States, where crude output was forecast to rise by 1.3 million bpd during 2018 to more than 11 million bpd by the end of the year. Opec crude output fell in February to 32.1 million bpd, led by Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates. The IEA raised its estimate for demand for Opec oil to 32.4 million bpd for 2018 from last month's forecast of 32.3 million bpd. The agency said the decision by US President Donald Trump decision to impose tariffs on imports of steel and aluminium, which has prompted threats of retaliation from major trading partners, posed a risk to global economic growth forecasts. "A slowdown would have strong consequences, particularly for fuel used in the maritime sector and in the trucking industry," the IEA said. It said growth in world trade had been strong, accelerating from 2.5 per cent in 2016 to 4.7 per cent in 2017, citing this as the likely reason behind a sturdy 1.8 per cent rise in 2017 in global gasoil demand.
Police investigating a stabbing in Gorton which left an 18-year-old man fighting for his life are treating the attack as attempted murder. Officers were called to Haworth Road, near Sunny Brow Park, shortly before 6.50pm on Monday night to reports of a man with multiple stab wounds to his stomach. It is believed the assault took place around 100 metres away, in the area around Tesco on Hyde Road. The unidentified male was treated at the scene on Haworth Road and taken to hospital, where he remains in a critical, but stable, condition, a GMP spokesman said. A crime scene was set up and officers have been working to identify a motive behind the attack. One witness said a man was stabbed multiple times by a group of around five others on Oakfield Grove, opposite the Tesco car park. Another said the stabbing may have happened outside a cash machine at Gorton Market, on Garratt Way. They said the victim then fled towards Oakfield Grove where he collapsed. Police have not confirmed the exact location of the attack or the number of people believed to be involved. A local resident, who only gave her name as Susan, said: “It’s somebody’s kid that. It’s the last thing you want to hear that isn’t it - that they’ve been stabbed. “It’s mad it’s happening here.” A GMP spokesman confirmed they are now treating the incident as an attempted murder. Det Insp Dave Sinclair, from GMP’s City of Manchester division, said: “This young man remains in a stable but critical condition and we are doing everything we can to understand who attacked him and why. “Forensic officers have been at the scene while detectives have been recovering CCTV and speaking to witnesses. We need to find the person responsible for this vicious attack, which has ultimately left a man fighting for his life. “I’d urge anyone who might have seen something, even if it was before or after the incident, to please contact us. “I’d also ask people to check their CCTV and cars for any dashcam footage, which could prove vital in identifying the attacker.” Anyone with any information should call police on 0161 856 1146, quoting crime reference 1969 of 09/07/18 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.
A booking photo provided by the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department shows Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens on Thursday, Feb. 22, 2018. A St. Louis grand jury has indicted Greitens on a felony invasion of privacy charge for allegedly taking a compromising photo of a woman with whom he had an affair in 2015, the city circuit attorney's office said Thursday. Greitens' attorney issued a scathing statement challenging the indictment. (St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department/St. Louis Post-Dispatch via AP) ST. LOUIS (AP) — A St. Louis grand jury on Thursday indicted Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens on a felony invasion of privacy charge for allegedly taking a compromising photo of a woman with whom he had an affair in 2015. The Republican governor responded that he made a mistake but committed no crime. St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner launched an investigation in January after Greitens admitted to an affair with his St. Louis hairdresser that began in March 2015. He was elected governor in November 2016. Thursday's indictment was followed with an announcement by House Republican leaders that they were forming a group of lawmakers to investigate the charges "and answer the question as to whether or not the governor can lead our state while a felony case moves forward." In a statement following the indictment , the Republican governor was defiant and attacked the prosecutor who brought the charge. "As I have said before, I made a personal mistake before I was Governor," he said. "I did not commit a crime. With today's disappointing and misguided political decision, my confidence in our prosecutorial system is shaken, but not broken. I know this will be righted soon. The people of Missouri deserve better than a reckless liberal prosecutor who uses her office to score political points." Greitens' attorney, in a separate statement, called the indictment "baseless and unfounded." "In 40 years of public and private practice, I have never seen anything like this," attorney Edward L. Dowd Jr. said. Gardner's spokeswoman, Susan Ryan, responded: "Despite the Governor's personal attacks, the Circuit Attorney believes the courtroom is the appropriate place to argue the facts, not the media." Greitens' legal team immediately filed a motion to dismiss the indictment on the grounds that any relationship with the woman was consensual. Some lawmakers renewed suggestions that Greitens should consider resigning, as they had done when the affair first become public last month. Democratic state Sen. Jamilah Nasheed of St. Louis called for an impeachment process to begin immediately. "Gov. Greitens has to go," Nasheed said. "Missourians thought they voted for a person of character and integrity, and instead they got a liar and alleged criminal." Any impeachment process must begin in the House with an investigation. The joint statement from House Speaker Todd Richardson, Speaker Pro Tem Elijah Haahr and Majority Leader Rob Vescovo did not specifically mention impeachment while noting that they were initiating an investigation. The indictment states that on March 21, 2015, Greitens photographed a woman identified only by her initials "in a state of full or partial nudity" without her knowledge or consent. The indictment said Greitens "transmitted the image contained in the photograph in a manner that allowed access to that image via a computer." In 2015, the woman told her husband, who was secretly taping the conversation, that Greitens took the compromising photo of her at his home and threatened to use it as blackmail if she spoke about the affair. The penalty for first-degree invasion of privacy in Missouri is a sentence of up to four years behind bars. Greitens was taken into custody in St. Louis and released on his own recognizance. He is due in court for his first hearing on March 16, before Circuit Judge Rex Burlison. Greitens has repeatedly denied blackmailing the woman, but has repeatedly refused to answer questions about whether he took a photo. The indictment came about a month before the statute of limitations would have run out. The statute of limitations for invasion of privacy in Missouri is three years. Ryan, asked if additional charges could be filed, said the matter is still under investigation. Several lawmakers were questioned last week by investigators from Gardner's office. Greitens, the 43-year-old father of two young boys, came into office as a political outsider, a brash Rhodes Scholar and Navy SEAL officer who was wounded in Iraq, emerging as the winner in a crowded and expensive GOP primary. A former boxer and martial arts expert, he has embraced the role of maverick. He responded to a Democratic attack ad in the fall of 2016 with one of his own in which he fired more than 100 rounds from a machine gun as an announcer declared he'd bring out "the big guns" to fight Democratic policies championed by then-President Barack Obama. Greitens surprised many experts by defeating Democratic Attorney General Chris Koster in the November 2016 election. Some saw him as a rising Republican star with potential presidential aspirations. But governing hasn't always been easy, even though Republicans now control both houses as well as the governor's mansion. Greitens and GOP lawmakers have often clashed, with him comparing some to third-graders and labeling them "career politicians." He has also faced questions about so-called "dark money" campaign contributions and criticism for stacking the state board of education. His use of a secretive app that deletes messages is under investigation by Republican Attorney General Josh Hawley. Greitens' charity, The Mission Continues, faced scrutiny during the campaign when Democrats accused him of insider politics for accessing the donor list to raise about $2 million through its top contributors. AP reporters Summer Ballentine, David A. Lieb and Blake Nelson in Jefferson City, Missouri, contributed to this report.
Despite living on Earth’s driest populated continent, Australians throw around water as though the supply were endless. We are the planet’s greatest per capita consumers of water, with each person using an average 100,000 litres a year. Much of that is invisible to consumers, expended on the food and products we buy. Our electricity use isn’t much better. A recent Environmental Justice Australia investigation found east coast coal-fired power stations – where emissions limits trail places such as China – are responsible for deadly pollution that causes a suspected 130 premature deaths a year in Sydney alone. Yet oil and coal remain our primary energy sources, powering 70% of the nation. A wiser approach is slowly becoming apparent, but confusion often reigns. So here are some practical steps on how to switch to more sustainable water and electricity consumption. Use less water at home and recycle where possible Many water-saving tips are common sense: turn the tap off while brushing teeth, fix leaky taps immediately, use a dual flush toilet, only run full loads in washing machines and dishwashers, and get a rainwater tank if possible. (Visit the Nature Conservancy Australia for a more in-depth tips list.) Choosing water-efficient appliances is important, too. The national water efficiency star-rating scheme makes pinpointing winners easier. Some rebates apply for water-saving products; check the environment department’s website to search your area. But inventive Australians are also dreaming up recycling solutions. In Adelaide, Peter Cullin created The Cullector, an easy-to-install shower head that captures water wasted during warm-up time, then reuses it to increase shower pressure, saving an average 35,000 litres of water each person each year. Brisbane’s Chris Murray has something similar with his Redwater diverter, and Mackay’s Eric Winn went a step further. His Winns Water Saver diverts cold water from every hot water tap, which is reused in toilets or the garden instead of being flushed down the drain. Avoid wasting water in the garden by mulching and choosing water-wise plants. Some councils offer native plants free to ratepayers. To more efficiently water trees, consider deep root watering using the Greenwell Water Saver, made from recycled plastic by Adelaide’s Brian Measday. Consider your overall water footprint – and try to reduce it Surprisingly, about 90% of personal water consumption is invisible. Beyond the water we directly use in our everyday lives, almost every item consumed and used by humans requires water to make. (Watch this UNESCO short animation for an explanation.) Food is the worst “virtual water” consumption offender. The agriculture industry is responsible for using two-thirds of all water consumed nationally, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Livestock farmed for meat tends to have a far higher water footprint than vegetable and grain crops, largely because of the feed and water animals consume. That doesn’t mean everyone should turn vegetarian overnight. But moderating meat intake and supplementing with plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables – preferably organically grown produce, as better quality soil may retain more water – can help. Dutch non-profit network The Water Footprint illustrates the impact well: producing just one kilo of sheep meat requires an average 10,400 litres of water, while one tomato uses only about 50 litres. The bad news? With no real classification system, measuring and decreasing our personal water footprint is difficult. “The simplest way is to consume less. By purchasing less, we immediately reduce our water footprint,” says University of Melbourne associate professor Dr Robert Crawford, who researches household virtual water usage. “This involves purchasing only what we really need, making products last as long as possible, and recycling, reusing and sharing products.” Power your home with more sustainable energy Coal-fired power plants are a significant contributor to Australia’s greenhouse gas pollution, but alternatives that rely less heavily on fossil fuels are growing. The boom in rooftop solar continues, with a record 135,370 systems installed in 2016, according to Melbourne’s Clean Energy Council. While high feed-in tariffs are now rare, solar can still quickly pay for itself if homeowners calculate daytime electricity use and match panel sizes to that consumption pattern. Choice’s consumer guide is a good starting point, with simple explanations of capacity, costs, solar energy storage and available incentives. “Install five to 10 kilowatts of PV solar panel on your rooftop. You will save money while doing a good thing,” says Andrew Blakers, director of Australian National University Centre for Sustainable Energy Systems. “Australia is installing PV and wind fast enough to exceed 50% electricity by 2030. Electrification of nearly all energy functions will follow, and we can reduce emissions by 75% during the 2030s.” If a hefty upfront investment on solar isn’t an option, embrace GreenPower, a national accreditation program for renewable energy sourced from hydro, wind, solar and waste. Switching is as easy as calling your existing power retailer and choosing the percentage of renewable energy you’d like to buy each bill. Retailers then purchase green power on your behalf, feeding it into the national electricity grid. While end users still receive a mix of fossil and renewable energy, supporting GreenPower drives investment in renewables – a major way individuals can help Australia transition to more sustainable power sources. Other similar options include EnergyAustralia’s carbon neutral electricity plan. Lower your own energy use to save money and the environment The downside to green power can be increased costs, as coal-fired power stations remain the cheapest energy source. That’s where offsetting in your home comes in. Simple things can make a huge difference, such as switching appliances off at the wall, using energy-saving light bulbs, drying clothes outside and using timers and sensors for outdoor lights. (See EnergyAustralia’s blog for a more exhaustive list.) Emerging technology may soon make lowering energy use even easier. The Tesla Powerwall home battery stores solar electricity generated during the day for night use – the first Australian to install one in 2016 immediately cut his power bill by 90%. University of Newcastle professor Paul Dastoor has spent two decades developing a water-based solar paint, which allows printable solar panels that could one day turn our cars and even appliances into solar power stations. And Icelandic company Janulus has launched the world’s first portable wind turbine. Clean water and ample electricity are an essential part of modern life; clever and moderated use will ensure that continues at a rate our planet can sustain.
WASHINGTON — You’ve probably seen it pop up on social media and in the news: the Stanley Cup in all kinds of locations and events. But who makes sure it stays safe? Remember the roaming gnome in those travel commercials? The cavorting cup has been on a comparable journey — sharing a bed with Alex Ovechkin, making an appearance on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, holding beverages, cradling a baby, etc. This summer the Stanley Cup will be traveling the globe, going to North America and Europe. But not before Ovechkin gets another go at it. “I guess Ovechkin has a bit of pull. He’s getting it the next weekend,” Stanley Cup keeper Walt Neubrand said. The Canadian was on duty Sunday, where the cup is being displayed at the Canadian Embassy in D.C. on Canada Day. Cup-keepers go where the cup is and make sure that nobody does anything “silly” with it. It’s up to them to make sure that every player or personnel gets to have it for a day. “A lot of it is just common sense,” he said. “You just have to make sure it gets to the next guy; you want everybody to be able to celebrate with it.” But Neubrand has seen a few things. One of the things guys like to do is jump into the pool with it — something that one should not do with the cup, he said. “It’s silver. Silver and chlorine don’t really go together,” he said. “And it’s just disrespectful.” Neubrand said that the players are really good at taking care of it, and it’s friends and extended family that cup-keepers need to watch out for. What is allowed etiquette for the one-of-a-kind cup, though? “People are allowed to come up and touch it, hug it, and even kiss it, if they want … just be respectful,” Neubrand said. “We want everybody to be able to have some fun. It’s really a people’s trophy.” Cup-keepers also get a chance to see the players bring the Stanley Cup to their hometowns and to hospitals and schools. Neubrand said that in his experience being a keeper of the cup, it’s the personal way the players display the cup that stands out to him. “A lot of guys just have it in their backyards or a little hall in their towns. Those are the ones that stand out to me because they’re just so personable and personal. It’s what it’s meant to be,” Neubrand said. Part of a keeper’s job is to make sure the cup is looking its best when it makes an appearance. They clean it, with soap and water, at the end of the day. If it gets really messy, it gets an extra cleaning in the middle of the day. But for fancy occasions, such as when the Washington Capitals won, they whip out the silver polish. When Neubrand is not following the cup, he is a middle school teacher outside of Toronto, Canada. He is one of three keepers of the cup, a position created in 1994 when the New York Rangers damaged the Stanley Cup while celebrating with it. Like WTOP on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others. © 2018 WTOP. All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.
Songkhla – The Office of Disease Prevention and Control in Songkhla province is warning people in southern Thailand to be aware of hand, foot and mouth disease that usually spreads in the rainy season. According to the report from the ODPC, from 1st January to 18th June 2018, 691 hand, foot and mouth disease patients were identified in the seven provinces of southern Thailand with Songkhla having the highest number of 194 patients. Dr. Suwich Thammapalo, M.D., the director of ODPC12 said hand, foot, and mouth disease is common in infants and children younger than five years old. The rainy season is the period when the disease often spreads. Hand, foot and mouth disease is caused by viruses belonging to Enteroviruses group in which the coxsackievirus A16 is the common cause. The disease usually transmits through the air when the infected person coughs or sneezes, in close personal contact with an infected person, and through contact with contaminated objects or surfaces. A person infected with hand, foot and mouth disease is most contagious during the first week of illness. A fever is often the first sign of the disease, followed by a sore throat and small red spots, often in the back of the mouth, which can become painful and reduce appetite. A rash on the hands and feet may also develop within one or two days. It may also appear on the knees, elbows, buttocks or in the genital area. Adults may become infected and show no symptoms, but they can still pass the virus on to others. There is no specific treatment for hand, foot and mouth disease. The infected person should be isolated from others and take over-the-counter medications to relieve pain and fever. Frequent hand-washing and avoiding close contact with infected people may help reduce the risk of infection. People can contact the Department of Disease Control (DDC) via hotline 1422 for further information.
Cincinnati Bell completed its acquisition of Hawaiian Telcom on Monday and named a new top executive for the Hawaii phone, TV and internet service provider. Hawaiian Telcom is now led by John Komeiji, who previously was chief administrative officer and general counsel for the company, where he has worked for about 10 years. Komeiji holds the title of president and general manager at Hawaiian Telcom. He replaced Scott Barber, who was president and CEO. Barber joined Hawaiian Telcom in 2013 as chief operating officer and was named president and CEO in 2015. Ohio-based Cincinnati Bell committed to maintaining local management of Hawaiian Telcom under its $650 million acquisition of the Honolulu-based company. Komeiji joined Hawaiian Telcom in 2008. Before that he was a senior partner at the local law firm Watanabe Ing &Komeiji LLP. In a statement he said, “I’m humbled and excited to work with our local leadership team and employees to engage with our communities as we expand our statewide fiber network and deliver advanced services to more customers. Joining forces with Cincinnati Bell is a milestone in this journey that positions Hawaiian Telcom for long-term success, enabling us to continue investing in Hawaii and unlocking new opportunities for innovation and growth.” Leigh Fox, Cincinnati Bell president and CEO, said in a statement that the transaction will enable better expansion of fiber cable infra­- structure and services through a strong parent company and local leadership. “The entire leadership team looks forward to working closely with John, who exhibits an unwavering commitment to serving Hawaii, has intimate knowledge of Hawaiian Telcom and the local community, and has a proven track record of thoughtful leadership,” Fox said. “We are excited about what today’s news means for our ability to execute on our growth goals in a rapidly changing industry as we meet the needs of customers across the Hawaiian Islands and our recently expanded North American footprint. With Hawaiian Telcom, Cincinnati Bell has found a great partner for the future.” As part of the acquisition, two board directors of Hawaiian Telcom were added to the board of Cincinnati Bell: Walter Dods, retired chairman of First Hawaiian Bank, and Meredith Ching, executive vice president of external affairs at Alexander &Baldwin Inc. Hawaiian Telcom also announced that Su Shin has been named to the newly created position of chief of staff, with the responsibility of assisting Komeiji “with day-to-day management of personnel and execution of strategic initiatives.” Shin, a former journalist with KHNL-TV and senior vice president with the Bennet Group public relations firm, had been Hawaiian Telcom’s executive director of marketing and communications. Shares of Hawaiian Telcom were delisted from the Nasdaq on Monday after closing Friday at $28.92. Cincinnati Bell’s stock closed down 5 cents Monday at $15.65.
Who are the Gurkhas? Here's what you need to know about the 'bravest of the brave' Updated June 07, 2018 09:53:01 Photo: Gurkhas man a checkpoint at the IISS Shangri-la Dialogue in Singapore June 1, 2018. (Reuters: Edgar Su) It has been revealed that Singapore will use Gurkhas as part of the security force protecting next week's summit between Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un. The Gurkhas have a fearsome reputation built over the last two centuries and exemplified by their motto "it is better to die than be a coward". Here's what you need to know about them and their role in Singapore. They made their name in a war against the British Gurkhas originate from the mountainous region of Gorkha, one of the 75 districts of modern Nepal. The name was also used by a kingdom formed by the unification of the territory in the 18th century. The kingdom fought a war against the British East India Company, beginning in 1814 and ending in a peace treaty signed in 1815 and ratified in 1816 after the company's forces suffered heavy casualties. The treaty also meant the beaten British could recruit Gurkhas to serve in their own army. The respected warriors are known for their slouch hats and curved kukri knives. More on those later. They don't only serve in the British forces Photo: Gurkhas have been an integral part of the British Army for over 200 years. (The British Army) Gurkhas have been a part of the British Army since the early 19th century, fighting alongside the British in the Indian Rebellion, also called the Indian Mutiny, of 1857. They stood beside Australian troops in both world wars and also fought in the Falklands conflict and in Afghanistan. Gurkhas have also served for the British in Hong Kong, Borneo, Cyprus, Sierra Leone, East Timor, Bosnia, Kosovo and Iraq. After the partition of India in 1947, an agreement between Nepal, India and Britain transferred four Gurkha regiments from the British to the Indian army. Photo: Gurkhas on the North-West Frontier in 1923. (Supplied: Wikipedia) Singapore and Malaysia have also employed them for their own armies and police forces. That is why they will be in Singapore for the Trump-Kim summit. They are known for their bravery The Gurkhas suffered 20,000 casualties and won almost 2,000 awards for gallantry in World War I. Sir Ralph Turner MC, a Gurkha officer during this time, gave the soldiers their reputation from his quote: "Bravest of the brave, most generous of the generous, never had a country more faithful friends than you". In World War II they fought the Germans in Italy and the Japanese in Burma. Twenty-six Victoria Crosses, the ultimate award for gallantry in the British and Commonwealth forces, have been awarded to members of Gurkha regiments. This is their trademark kukri knife It is the national knife of Nepal, a working tool used every day in rural communities and also used for ceremonial purposes. Kukris come in many different sizes — including giant versions capable of decapitating a water buffalo. According to tradition, in the past it was said that once drawn, it had to 'taste blood'. So it's probably best to just check out that photo rather than asking to see one IRL. Here is what it takes to be recruited Video: Young Nepalese men compete in the doko race for a coveted spot in the British Gurkha Army. (ABC News) In desperately poor Nepal, a place in the Gurkhas is a route out of poverty for many young men. According to Gurkhas Australia, every year over 10,000 applicants try out for approximately 240 places in the British Army's Brigade of Gurkhas. It is considered one of the toughest selection processes in the world. It includes maths and English exams and a gruelling "doko" race in which potential recruits carry 25kg of sand while running up a steep, 4.2km course. They are also required to do 75 bench jumps in one minute and 70 sit-ups in two minutes. Gurkhas are recruited at 18 or 19 and do not retire until they are 45. Some have fought for recognition after their service Photo: Gurkhas have to endure an intense recruitment process. (Gurkhas Australia 2017) Retired Gurkhas who return to Nepal often face financial hardship, and their pensions and right to settle in the UK have been the subject of several well-publicised disputes between the UK Government and pro-Gurkha campaigners. In 2009, the Home Office announced Gurkhas who served between 1948 and 1997 would also be allowed to settle in the UK. That campaign had featured the actress Joanna Lumley speaking on behalf of the Gurkhas. Her father served as an officer in the regiment. Photo: British actress Joanna Lumley fought for Gurkhas to be allowed to settle in the UK (Reuters) How will Gurkhas be protecting Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un? Although the world leaders will have their personal security at the upcoming summit in Singapore, Gurkhas will secure the summit venue at the Capella Hotel as well as roads and hotels. And while the Gurkhas are known for using kukri knives they will also be equipped with guns and bullet-proof vests to protect the summit. Topics: world-politics, army, defence-forces, community-and-society First posted June 06, 2018 13:58:05
In the Houston area, 11 school districts have campuses that received the Texas Education Agency's lowest accountability rating in 2017. These campuses, ranging from elementary to high school, have been marked "Improvement Required" for at least one year. This means they failed to meet at least three accountability indexes for one year or more. HISD AT RISK: District faces state takeover if 13 schools don't get better If a campus receives the "Improvement Required" rating for five consecutive years, the TEA can either close the campus or take over its operation. Klaire Padgett, 6, and 7-year-old Daxton Stanton, both in first grade, explore the rudiments of coding with a block-based robotics construction system in their school library at Ed White E-STEM in El Lago, part of Clear Creek ISD. The library, which hosts technology clubs, maker spaces and has a 3-D printer, is the innovative domain of school librarian Tamiko Brown -- who considers herself a STEM librarian. She was named the 2017 School Librarian of the Year by the School Library Journal. The campuses in this report are from Aldine, Alief, Conroe, Fort Bend, Galveston, Hempstead, Hitchcock, Houston, Pasadena, Spring and Spring Branch school districts. To be rated Met Standard, a campus must meet either the Student Achievement or Student Progress standard, plus both Closing Performance Gaps and Postsecondary Readiness standards. Some Houston-area campuses have been rated Improvement Required for one year, while others, like Houston ISD's Kashmere High School, have received unacceptable rating for as many as eight consecutive years. A state conservator now oversees Kashmere High School. Schools that have been designated Improvement Required must submit a turnaround plan to the state. These plans are closely monitored, and the campuses receive extra support from both school district and state officials in order to improve as quickly as possible.
Over three hundred years ago, the King of Sweden ordered a rifle factory be founded on Lake Vättern in Sweden. This week, next door to the Scores adult entertainment club on the west side of Manhattan, a set of new motorcycles was unveiled. These two moments are related, across time and space, because they both have to do with Husqvarna. It’s a brand you might know best from the popular line of power tools, but Husqvarna has existed in some form or another since the late 1600s making muskets, sewing machines, and even typewriters. But it has also made motorcycles since 1903. Husqvarna’s earliest motorcycles, as well as its traditional bikes, were known for being simple and lightweight. Not long before being sold off (the first time) to Italian manufacturer Cagiva, Husqvarna motorcycles were easily designed, adapted well to different riding settings and styles, and were considerably popular. Steve McQueen might have famously rode a Triumph TR6 trophy to near freedom in The Great Escape, but even he was known to hotfoot it in a Husqvarna in his later years. Like nearly every other company making a motorized vehicle (regardless of wheel count) in the early 20th century, though, Husqvarna dabbled in racing. The company eventually became a commanding force in off-road competition, and it has exploited that niche ever since. The brand’s focus shifted. A few years ago, though, the company tasked Maxime Thouvenin — a soft-spoken but affable Frenchman who was rising through the ranks of design studio Kiska — with reaching back into the past to pull Husqvarna’s street bike legacy into the future. Thouvenin got into motorcycles as a hobby the same way many people develop a passion: his father rode. After studying industrial design at France’s Institut Supérieur de Design, he interned at Kiska, before taking another internship with BMW Motorrad in Munich. He was then hired back full time at Kiska to work on Austrian outfit KTM’s booming motorcycle business. (“When I came back the building was like 10 times the size,” he jokes.) KTM eventually acquired Husqvarna, and Thouvenin was essentially handed the key. The new bikes are Thouvenin’s vision, coalesced. (He was even asked to design a full suite of accessories — a helmet, jacket, wallet, shoes, and other clothing — to go along with them.) After showing them off in various forms over the last few years at the Milan Motorcycle Show (or EICMA), Husqvarna and Thouvenin are finally releasing them into the world this spring. The bikes are quite unlike anything else on the market. Tugging at Husqvarna’s heritage as an off-road force, they resemble the retro-futuristic scrambler bikes made by Triumph, but also the more flamboyant ones from Ducati. They are modern, but classic; futuristic, but familiar; most of all, they look cool as hell. The Husqvarna bikes are distinguishable thanks to the collaboration between Thouvenin’s design team and Husqvarna’s engineers. The tank and seat of the new bikes form clean, almost rigid horizontal lines, while their exposed bellies invite you to poke and prod with your eyes (or hands) at all the mechanical bits that make the motos move. They are named Svartpilen 401 and Vitpilen 401, or “black arrow” and “white arrow” in Swedish; appropriate monikers, since they look like they’re moving forward even when they’re standing still. They ought to be fun to ride, too, as both employ a 375cc single cylinder four-stroke engine that puts out 44 horsepower. With a dry weight of about 330 pounds, that should be more than enough to make Husqvarna’s new bikes feel speedy and spry. And if that leaves you hungry for more, there’s a bigger version of the Vitpilen (the Vitpilen 701) with a 693cc engine that puts down 75 horsepower. The 401 and 701 will retail for around $7,000 and $12,000, respectively. Ahead of the final reveal of the new bikes, Thouvenin sat down with The Verge to talk about the task of resurrecting this part of the Husqvarna brand, while also tackling the problem of designing a bike at a time when motorcycles are at a relatively low point in popularity in the US. Steve Masterson, the president of Kiska’s North American shop, chimes in at the beginning and end. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. Sean O’Kane: These bikes have been around in the public eye for a little bit. Can you just break down for me the different forms that they’ve gone through? What’s the full portfolio? Maxime Thouvenin: So as you said we started with the 401s, the Vitpilen and Svartpilen [concept] show bikes, and then of course we worked to turn these bikes into production. And in the meantime we presented the Vitpilen 701 show bike which is the following bike in the lineup. Steve Masterson: The design was very strategic with Husqvarna. Kiska has been working with KTM since 1992. So every single bike since then has been designed by Kiska, and over that time we’ve created the largest European brand in the world. So we had the chance with Husqvarna to actually sit down and say, okay, what took us 25 years to do, we now need to do it in three or four years. So Maxime was able to sort of sit down with the Kiska design team — which isn’t just a team of transportation designers. It’s also brand and marketing people business people, R&D — and think, ‘Okay, what are the engine platforms we can use? What are the ranges that we should be looking at? What’s the whole raison d’être behind Husqvarna?’ From a very early stage, and from Maxime’s hand, came a whole range, a whole story of what Husqvarna would be — right from the get go. So it wasn’t just let’s design one bike and then see how it goes, design another bike. It was always a much more strategic approach. SO: Was that a lot to deal with? Being an industrial designer having worked on physical products to now having in your hands sort of all of these things that surround it? MT: It was a big challenge, yeah for sure [laughs]. But I mean, so interesting. I mean, to do that with such a brand with such a history and such a heritage and to have this chance to create this new story around it. It was fascinating for sure. SO: Once you started moving along that path of helping shape the brand, what were some of the first things that really stuck out to you as things that needed to be a part of what represents the company? What were some of the qualities that you latched onto first? MT: With the street bikes, with Husqvarna returning to the street segment after 50 years, there were lots of discussions, and of course design exploration, to really figure out, ‘Okay, how are we going to do that?’ I mean, that’s a big one. Like, let’s not rush to design something. And I think that, yeah, the brand promise, ‘pioneering’ was something... we had to bring Husqvarna back to the street with a Husqvarna approach. It had to be something right, something special. It couldn’t have been a quick return for a few years, no, this was really the return of the street segment on the long term. So that was the big discussion. The Vitpilen 401 has a slightly different style than the Svartpilen 401, with a higher display, a single-piece seat, and a white finish to the tank. If you look at today’s market you’ve got all these super high-tech performance-oriented bikes, quite often aggressive, expressing more and more power. Quite often over-styled. And then we saw the classic scene getting bigger and bigger every year. With classic bikes and cafe racers, and so on. And so manufacturers were making neo-retro bikes. And fair enough. The demand is big. But we thought, wait, there must be an alternative to that. Husqvarna is pioneering, that means innovative, what can we do? And the idea was to capture the essence of what motorcycles were in the past and what people were missing with modern bikes. And to do that but in the most modern, progressive way. Basically to really offer an alternative to what was out there. SO: What were some of those things that motorcycles were doing back then that you wanted to capture? MT: How motorcycles were approachable. I think everybody was riding motorcycles in the ‘70s, like everybody. Men, women, that was the thing. So we wanted to actually capture that and create an approachable motorcycle. They’re very simple, very reduced. Not intimidating at all. Very enticing. As an object, but also as a riding experience, we wanted to create lightweight bikes that were really compact. And this is what it’s been missing for years. [With the new bikes] it’s about capturing this flavor of the past. In the US, when Triumph was big, they were compact bikes, they were very simple bikes. A tank, a front engine, a seat, and it was not about weight, it was just about having fun riding. The Vitpilen 701 is a bigger, heavier, and faster bike. It also costs about $5,000 more. SO: I think in the tech-focused world we and our readers live in at The Verge, we’re all used to wanting a new product every year, maybe every half year. And sometimes we’ll look at a project that takes four years and say, why did it take four years to do that? Can you tell me what the process was like working on these bikes over a number of years? Did you feel like that was or wasn’t enough time? MT: For us to go from a show bike to a production bike, and see the bikes on the street in three years for the 401 and a bit more than two years for the 701, it felt very short for us. [laughs] Very short. What we also didn’t want to do is to rush the design and the development and miss the last percentage of quality of what we wanted to achieve. So it was important to be very true to these show bikes and really take exactly the time that was needed to achieve that, which again was really short. You’ve got to imagine that if you look at the show bikes and the production bikes — I hope, and so far that’s the — they look very, very similar to the show bike. But there’s not a square centimeter that’s the same, actually. So we had to rework everything and find solutions with R&D and the engineers to make that happen. SO: I’ve seen interviews where you’ve framed the idea of these limitations — time frame that you’re working with, or some of the regulations that you have to stay within — as problems that you need to solve. What’s the difference between working on bikes in a practical, problem solving way and more freewheeling, boundless design work? MT: It’s two very different tasks for sure, but for me what we did is a good example of what’s really satisfying as a designer. Because we’ve got the show bikes, where we have no limits. It’s like the ultimate design we want, and it’s there, and it’s great. To bring that into production, I’m not lying, it’s really frustrating sometimes. [Laughs] It hurts sometimes. For sure. But the whole challenge is, let’s make it happen, let’s try to find a solution. Sometimes a problem creates a new way of doing things, or makes you question your design approach, and you find new solutions. SO: Husqvarna has a very deep history across a lot of different disciplines, and I would imagine that’s appetizing for a designer, in the sense that if you really do want to reference things or call on things that the brand has been associated with, you have a very deep well to work with. Were there specific things you went back to for inspiration? MT: We really looked forward. Husqvarna has always been pioneering, and even at the time they were doing those things, it was like crazy innovative what they did. And that’s what we are doing now. So we’re not looking at what Husqvarna did in the past and trying to bring it back. In a way, because of its heritage and how they always thrived for innovation, we’re doing that too. I think the Scandinavian approach is something that also links the whole story here. Husqvarna always did things to provide something to people, to go forward, and their way of doing something was always... being approachable is not something new, they always did something approachable for people. It’s a very Swedish or Scandinavian design approach. It’s all functional, very minimalist, very reduced in everything they did. And this perfectly makes sense with what we’re trying to achieve now, because that is also very much Scandinavian. SO: The motorcycle industry is in a really interesting place; just the other week Harley-Davidson shut down a factory and laid off people at another one . What does it feel like to to make a bike in a time like this, or do those things not really come into your mind too much? MT: No, of course that’s something that’s always kind of there, when you look at what’s happening. But maybe it’s another good reason to go in a new direction, actually. It’s hard to say. SM: In 1995, we were selling 1.2 million units. Today it’s 485,000. Looking at that, the motorcycle industry is in decline. In 1995, there were 3.4 million registered motorcycle users. Today there’s 8.4 [million]. So the market is changing. The great thing about millennials is you change taxi riding, you change eating out, and you’re changing motorcycle riding as well. So to make the new motorcycle market into a successful thriving market again, it’s got to adapt and change. This is where we rely on Maxime and what he’s trying to do in making it approachable. This isn’t just about having the right product, it’s about having the right experience. Even Harley-Davidson realizes, you know, they’ve got to get more riders, they’ve got to get people to experience the riding experience. So yes, the market’s changed. How people are consuming the product has changed. They don’t want to have to be completely kitted out in leather with all the latest gear, and getting the bike serviced. They just want to be able to put on a pair of jeans, and a leather jacket, and a helmet, and just go and ride. SO: With that in mind, pulling back from the design study side of these new bikes, what does it feel like to finally get to hop on and ride this thing that you’ve designed? MT: It’s a great feeling for sure. I also tried the prototypes along the way, so it’s not like we do one drawing and then two years later we sit on it and it feels good. [Laughs]. But it’s not exactly how you picture it before it happens. You know, when I was a kid you’d say ‘Oh, that was a drawing and now you can sit on it!’ In reality, there’s just so much development in between. And when the bikes ride like this, I mean even better, because they’re so much fun to ride. Correction: This article previously referred to Thouvenin as Austrian. He is French.
Once upon a time, there was a princess. She had long red hair and a mermaid tail – and if you were near a primary school on World Book Day, you might have seen a six-year-old version of her bombing around the playground. But Ariel is a faintly cautionary figure for wannabe princesses. In the original Disney film of The Little Mermaid, she starts off as an adventurous, even rebellious character, but something changes when she falls for a human prince. Love drives her into a Faustian pact whereby she surrenders her voice in exchange for a human body that makes her more desirable to her man. Spoiler alert: the mute-but-lovable thing does not work out entirely as planned. Let’s hope Meghan Markle, the newest fairytale princess on the block, doesn’t fall into the same trap. After reports that Prince Harry’s fiancee is not just a committed feminist but is considering giving her own speech at her own wedding, she this week dropped some heavy hints that she will be campaigning on issues to do with “empowering women” when she officially joins the royal family. She even used her first joint public engagement with Princess Ariel – sorry, the Duchess of Cambridge – to praise the Time’s Up and #MeToo campaigns against sexual harassment. Only 40 years or so after everyone else, it seems, the royal family has finally been alerted to the existence of feminism. And no, a female-led monarchy isn’t the same thing as a feminist one. After so many decades of being the most powerful woman in any given room, it would be surprising if the Queen held no private views about equality; and they have occasionally floated tantalisingly close to the surface. When hosting the king of Saudi Arabia, a country where women were not permitted to drive until recently, she is said to have once made a point of driving him around the Balmoral estate herself in her Land Rover. But gender politics has largely been seen as territory too fraught for the Queen to enter, which is why the emergence of Britain’s first woke princess is a significant moment. It will either confirm that feminism has simply become received wisdom – that equality is now such an utterly conventional, mainstream idea that opposing it looks frankly weird – or it will help flush any backlash into the open. Admittedly, the concept of a feminist princess feels a bit like Mattel bringing out an Engineer Barbie. As enlightened role models for little girls go, a doll clutching a spanner probably beats a doll swinging a handbag. But it’s still a doll. Much of Markle’s work as a member of the royal family will presumably remain rather doll-like too, consisting as it traditionally does of charming small children and pensioners while wearing expensive clothes. The way Prince Harry gently reminded her, when she started talking eagerly about #MeToo, that she had a wedding to organise first does not exactly imply revolution. But still, from little acorns and all that. The duchess and her future sister-in-law are both 36, yet at times like this they seem almost a generation apart: one representing continuity – a life hard to distinguish, in some ways, from her mother’s – and the other standing for change. It’s not a competition, some gruesome Kate v Meghan catfight. As wife to the royal “spare” rather than the heir, Harry’s bride has more freedom to push the boundaries. But if the royal family, like Disney, wants to ensure its commercial survival by providing a princess for every audience, then it now has pretty much the full set. For the traditionalists, there’s the reassuringly horsey Princess Anne. The duchess, who obediently gave up work to get her man, and now seems chiefly focused on her children, is the Daily Mail reader’s princess. Markle looks set to corner the millennial market as the sparky one you would least mind your daughter aspiring to become. But it’s not just princesses who, in the first flush of marriage, can be surprised to find themselves quietly conforming to an old-fashioned “wifely” ideal – picking up his dirty socks, and biting back the criticism, for reasons they can’t quite explain. As Markle put it this week, empowering women is less about “giving them a voice” than encouraging them to use the perfectly good voices they already have. And, like Ariel, she may well come under pressure in the coming months to sacrifice her own rather distinctive voice in the name of marriage, particularly if it’s in danger of sounding at all critical. The younger royals have so far proved rather adept at making themselves more relevant to millennial Britain without straying into politics or scaring the horses. In choosing to campaign against the stigma surrounding mental health, and in Harry’s case to speak openly about his own problems, they picked an issue their parents’ generation might have nervously avoided but which shouldn’t be shocking or controversial in 2018. Despite some grumbling from the stiff-upper-lip brigade, they have gently helped show their elders that the sky doesn’t actually fall in when difficult emotions are brought into the open. But bridging the generational gap over feminism is a more daunting task. Like Michelle Obama, Markle is used to having a professional platform in her own right, as an actor and former UN ambassador on women’s rights. But even Obama felt compelled to present herself coyly, as “mom-in-chief”, when she entered the White House, giving up paid work and mostly limiting her activism to safe issues such as childhood obesity. It must have been boring as hell at times, and one hopes the former first lady lets rip a bit in her forthcoming autobiography. But she learned the hard way during her husband’s presidential campaign that millions of voters didn’t want to hear anything more challenging: that some evidently liked her better when she wasn’t portrayed as her husband’s equal, while others sought any excuse to caricature her as an “angry black woman”. Obama spent years trying to live down a single anodyne remark about how for the first time in her adult life she was proud of America. Still some have never forgiven her for it. A decade on, we are about to find out whether Britain is ready for a confident, unapologetically feminist, mixed-race woman to occupy a position of considerable soft power. And those grim texts from Jo Marney, the recently deposed Ukip leader’s on-off girlfriend, complaining that Meghan’s “seed would taint our royal family”, are a reminder of what she is up against. You don’t have to believe in fairytales, or indeed in the monarchy, to hope for a happy ending.
The second restart of the night was briefly held up by a wild goose chase — yes, an actual wild goose chase — and a subsequent accident in which said goose flew into one of the scoreboards and crashed into the stands. “I had a duck growing up as a pet and he was always running around when we were playing Wiffle ball in the backyard,” Angels manager Mike Scioscia said, dismissing the notion that he had never seen anything quite like this before. “To be honest with you, I have.”
Kolkata, June 7 : Growing hospitalisation costs, rising elderly population and a need for personalised medical attention have fuelled a rapid increase in India's home healthcare services sector, which is set to grow manifold in the coming years, say stakeholders. "The home healthcare sector in India is burgeoning and is expected to reach $6 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) by 2020 from a $2 billion market opportunity in 2014," Nightingales Home Health Services Chief Executive Officer Narasimha Jayakumar told IANS. Echoing him, Alok Roy, Chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals, which recently launched homecare services, said the Indian market had a significant potential though it was now at a nascent stage. "The Indian market is currently estimated at over $3 billion per annum and is growing at over 20 percent annually. "Home healthcare market In India is witnessing tremendous growth due to the rise in the aging population. The market for home healthcare services in India is set to double in the coming years," Roy told IANS. According to Vivek Srivastava , Co-Founder and CEO of Healthcare at Home, the overall homecare market is growing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 40 per cent over the past three-four years. Cost competitiveness for in-home health services has been a major driver of their demand. "Homecare as a concept is gaining ground in India and the reasons are clinical and societal... it definitely works out cheaper to the extent of 30 per cent as compared to the hospital cost as there is no infrastructure and other overheads. This apart, the cost of a family member needing to stay off from work is an additional saving," Apollo Homecare CEO Mahesh Joshi told IANS. Roy said patients end up saving 20-50 per cent cost as compared to regular hospital treatment depending upon the services taken. "For instance, ICU services are 40-50 per cent cheaper than those provided in hospitals," he said. Again, oncology care at home would also be cheaper by 20 per cent compared to similar hospital facilities, Srivastava told IANS. Homecare service providers also said improved affordability, need for a personalised care for chronic and lifestyle-based diseases, changes in the traditional family system and rise of nuclear families contributory factors in market growth. The operators are providing an array of services, but the most sough-after include COPD management, stroke rehabilitation, ICU, dentistry, oncology, baby care, attention to post transplant patients and geriatric population. However, non-availability of comprehensive insurance coverage for these services is seen as the "most important piece missing in the entire ecosystem", Joshi said, adding an insurance facility will be a game changer for the industry going forward. "Although home healthcare services are gaining considerable traction in India, they are currently not comprehensively covered by health insurance companies. We expect these policies to change in the coming years as these services prove to be an indispensable treatment option for many," Jayakumar said. According to Joshi, the organised players in home healthcare are in discussions with leading insurance providers and hoping a couple of them would take this up as a value added service for their clients. While home healthcare services have several "clear advantages" for a section of patients over treatment in a traditional hospital, choosing in-home care for one's elderly parents or other loved ones is "not without risk", People for Better Treatment President Kunal Saha said. "In a developing country like India, where corruption has riddled through virtually all aspects of public services, with hardly any checks and balances even for the qualified doctors... the new field of home healthcare services is likely to attract unscrupulous people in this lucrative business." This could pose "serious threats to the lives of the suffering elderly citizens who may become more vulnerable in the secrecy of individualised medical care by unqualified caregivers", Saha told IANS in an e-mailed response. In the US and other developed countries, more and more people have been opting for home healthcare services for elderly and debilitated patients for more than two decades. Saha, HIV/AIDS Specialist, Adjunct Professor and Consultant, Columbus State Community College, Ohio, said the Indian government should lay down a "strict and transparent mechanism and licensing system" to regulate the businesses of home health services before they are allowed to operate. (Bappaditya Chatterjee can be contacted at bappaditya.c@ians.in) Related: Decoding dementia: It's not a demon
Instagram is dissolving its Global Community Team, which worked to build deep ties with photographers and promote the service around the world, The Verge has learned. As part of a reorganization at the company, about 12 jobs currently located in cities around the world will be eliminated, with affected employees being offered jobs elsewhere at Instagram or at its parent company, Facebook. The move was designed to eliminate duplicate efforts among some members of the team and consolidate the company’s marketing and communications efforts into a single team headquartered in Menlo Park, a former employee said. “Focusing on our community is at the heart of everyone’s work at Instagram,” Instagram spokesman Gabe Madway told The Verge. “We recently integrated the Community group into the broader Outreach organization to better support our growing Instagram community this year and beyond. There were a small number of people affected by the change who didn’t make the move into other departments and our priority is helping them find other roles at Instagram or other parts of the Facebook family. Both companies are growing and have many job openings.” Instagram’s community efforts date back nearly to its founding 2010, when fans of the app would visit the company’s small office in San Francisco and go on photo walks with its founders, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger. Community managers began organizing “InstaMeets” around the world to bring users together, and highlighted the best of their photography on corporate marketing channels. Instagram’s aggressive efforts to cultivate its community early on, particularly among high-end photographers, helped to set it apart from rivals in its early days, generating both brand loyalty and free promotion. Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion in March 2012. Eventually, Instagram built a worldwide Global Community Team. In addition to hosting regular meetups and other marketing events, the team created local accounts in Russia, Japan, France, German, Spain, and Brazil. Community managers created posts in the language of the countries where they lived. The team took pride in the fact that 80 percent of Instagram accounts were located outside the United States, and informally called themselves “Team 80%.” Community managers posted three times daily in an operation that felt like a global newsroom, according to one former employee. Collectively, the accounts have nearly 40 million followers, with each photo receiving thousands of likes and comments. But the accounts all went dark between February 12th and February 15th, and haven’t posted since. They will be phased out, with Instagram focusing all of its marketing efforts on the primary corporate account. One former Instagram employee said Instagram’s community efforts had declined in recent years, with the “Community First” slogan that appeared on the company’s branded swag gradually replaced by a business-first mentality. “More recently, we‘d have every post analyzed for the percentage of followers who liked it, and other various engagement indicators recorded across weeks, months and years,” a former employe said. “If targets weren’t met, bonuses weren’t paid. It went from being a fun team to an aggressive-growth-driven team that obsessed over spreadsheets.” An Instagram spokesman denied that people were denied bonuses for failing to hit performance targets. Other tensions in the team also emerged. After hearing constant complaints from people in their countries, a group of community managers argued forcefully that Instagram should give users the option of seeing their posts in chronological order. But their request was rejected, creating the perception that community feedback was less important to the company than it had been before. “That wasn’t the case before Facebook took over,” the former employee said. “Community was valued and deeply understood by the original employees. Now that’s been diluted to the point of losing what made the app such a joy in the first place.”
An Interpol Red Notice may soon be issued against fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. Once the notice is issued, Interpol member countries will be asked to locate and detain Nirav and extradite him. Nirav and his maternal uncle Mehul Choksi are accused of committing fraud of over Rs 13,000 in the state-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB). Both of them reportedly left the country in the first week of January and are currently on the run. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering charges against the duo, have issued repeated summons to the two. Their passports also stand revoked. “A meeting was also held between the officials of the ministry of external affairs, the CBI, ED and Bureau of Immigration to discuss the issue of multiple passports, wherein the CBI stated that they kept the Interpol informed about Nirav’s movements at every stage,” said an official familiar with the development of the case. The CBI tried to track Nirav’s movements through a diffusion notice issued to six countries — the US, Singapore, Belgium, the UAE, the UK and France — through the Interpol on February 15, but only the UK replied with details about his movements to and from London’s Heathrow airport till March 31. According to the information from the UK, Nirav managed to travel across several countries – US, Hong Kong, France and the UK — even after the Indian government informed the Interpol that his passport had been revoked. Earlier, the CBI had said that they sent reminders to all the countries where Nirav is suspected to have travelled for any information on his movements.
The Israeli parliament has passed a law that allows the minister of interior to revoke the residency rights of any Palestinian in Jerusalem on grounds of a "breach of loyalty" to Israel. The bill, ratified on Wednesday, will also apply in cases where residency status was obtained on the basis of false information, and in cases where "an individual committed a criminal act" in the view of the interior ministry. Under the new measure, Israel's Interior Minister Aryeh Deri, leader of the ultra-Orthodox political party Shas, will be able to strip the residency documents of any Palestinian whom he deems a threat. Hanan Ashrawi, a senior member of the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO), described the law as "an extremely racist piece of legislation. "By unethically stripping the residency of Palestinians from Jerusalem and depriving the rights of those Palestinians to remain in their own city, the Israeli government is acting in defiance of international law and is violating international human rights and humanitarian laws," said Ashrawi, according to a statement published on Wafa, the official Palestinian news agency. 'Security of Israeli citizens' Despite Israel's claims that occupied East Jerusalem is part of its "eternal, undivided" capital, the Palestinians who are born and live there do not hold Israeli citizenship, unlike their Jewish counterparts. Palestinians in the city are given "permanent residency" ID cards and temporary Jordanian passports that are only used for travel purposes. They are essentially stateless, stuck in legal limbo - they are not citizens of Israel, nor are they citizens of Jordan or Palestine. The new bill will only worsen the difficult conditions for the 420,000 Palestinians living in occupied East Jerusalem, who are treated as foreign immigrants by the state. Any Palestinian who has lived outside of Jerusalem for a certain period of time, whether in a foreign country or even in the occupied West Bank, is at risk of losing their right to live there. Since 1967, Israel has revoked the status of at least 14,000 Palestinians. In a statement on his Twitter page, Deri, the interior minister, said this law would allow him to protect the "security of Israeli citizens". Deri, who was, in the past, convicted of bribery, fraud and "breach of trust", said the law would "be used against permanent residents who plan to carry out attacks against Israeli citizens". Adalah, a Palestinian rights group in Israel, said the law is illegal under international humanitarian law. "East Jerusalem is considered occupied territory under international humanitarian law (IHL) - like all other areas of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip - and its Palestinian residents are a protected civilian population. It is therefore illegal under IHL to impose upon them an obligation of loyalty to the occupying power, let alone to deny them the permanent residency status on this basis," a statement by the group said. In a recent report, Human Rights Watch said such residency revocations, which force Palestinians out of Jerusalem, "could amount to war crimes" under the treaty of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The development comes amid heated tensions in Jerusalem, after US President Donald Trump decided to publicly recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December. Trump also vowed to move the US embassy from Tel Aviv - the Israeli commercial capital - to Jerusalem. No country in the world recognises Jerusalem as Israel's capital, with the exception of the US and Russia. The latter had recently announced its recognition of West Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and East Jerusalem as "the capital of the future Palestinian state".
"Dean Heller's saying that he talks to Trump on the phone all the time; talks to Ivanka Trump all the time," Tarkanian told KBET host Kevin Wall. "Well, Ivanka Trump was a Democrat, and she's very, very moderate to liberal, compared to the Republican base." By casting the first daughter as out of touch with conservatives, Tarkanian demonstrated his effort to capture voters who bought into Trump's campaign pledges and are loyal to the President, but suspicious of those around him in Washington -- particularly on Capitol Hill. In an email, Tarkanian told CNN he "did not say nor mean to infer a relationship with Ivanka is a bad thing. It is a good thing. She is the daughter of the President." "But," he added, "she is a registered Democrat and more moderate than the GOP base, which means her political views are probably similar to Heller's views, because he is a moderate to liberal." Ivanka Trump told CNN in 2016 that she is an independent who has always voted based on the candidate and not the party. Heller's campaign didn't respond to a request for comment on Tarkanian's remarks. Tarkanian's comments were reminiscent of former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon's own very thinly veiled jab at Ivanka Trump. In December's Alabama Senate special election, Ivanka Trump reacted to the child molestation accusations against Republican Roy Moore by saying that "there is a special place in hell for people who prey on children." Three weeks later, her father endorsed Moore, saying he didn't believe the allegations. Bannon evoked that split on the eve of the election, telling Alabama Republicans that there is a "special place in hell for Republicans who should know better." Still, the tactic seems at odds with the GOP electorate: Ivanka Trump is viewed favorably by 81% of Republicans, a January CNN poll found. Tarkanian's argument that Heller has been insufficiently supportive of Trump is at the heart of his primary challenge. And for months, it seemed like he had a point. Heller, who endorsed Jeb Bush, then Marco Rubio, had been critical of Trump during the 2016 election. He skipped the Republican National Convention, then said weeks before the election that he was "99% against Trump" (though he'd say 10 months later that he voted for Trump after all). Most famously, in a news conference with the national political world watching, Heller stood beside Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval and announced his opposition to an Obamacare repeal bill last summer, effectively sinking Trump's first health care effort. Trump, in turn, embarrassed Heller at a White House meeting on health care. With the Nevada senator seated next to him, he predicted Heller would reverse his stance and vote for a new health care bill because "he wants to remain a senator, doesn't he?" The personal animosity dissipated, though, when Trump, Heller and Reps. Kevin McCarthy of California and Mark Amodei of Nevada flew together on Air Force One to Las Vegas in October, in the wake of the mass shooting there. On that flight, Trump and Heller had a long conversation and moved past their differences, several sources briefed on the matter said. "They talked through their differences," said Michael McDonald, the Nevada GOP chairman. "Anything they had." Heller discussed the plane ride himself at a news conference shortly after arriving in Las Vegas, saying he'd highlighted the work of first responders to the President. "I had a rare occasion to be at 30,000 feet with a couple hours of face time with this particular president," Heller said then. Heller later cozied up to Ivanka Trump as well, joining a group of Republican senators who dined at her Washington home last fall and working with her on several issues afterward. Since then, Heller's votes have closely aligned with Trump's priorities. His name was on a later version of the GOP's health care legislation. He was a staunch advocate for the tax bill that Trump signed into law in December. And Heller -- who voted for immigration reform in 2013 -- has voted against two compromise immigration efforts this year, but voted for Trump's plan. Heller's recent loyalty to Trump appears to have paid off: At a recent Republican National Committee gathering in Washington, Trump told members at a closed-door meeting that he intended to visit Nevada to campaign for Heller ahead of the June GOP primary. Tarkanian, the son of a legendary UNLV basketball coach, says he isn't buying any of it -- and doesn't believe Trump is, either. "Since I got into the race, Heller has done everything he can to patch up his strained relationship with the President; however, I believe the President is too smart to buy it and is just appeasing Heller for his votes," Tarkanian said. "The President knows, as do Nevadans, that if Heller wins the primary, on June 13 he will be the same DC Dean, catering to the whims of moderates and Democrats in hopes of their votes in the general election."
Man jailed after killing 40yo in one-punch attack while out celebrating 18th birthday Updated March 09, 2018 09:39:44 Photo: Tristan Heather (centre, wearing sunglasses) will need to serve at least 80 pc of his sentence. (ABC News) A New Zealand man has been sentenced to six-and-a-half years in jail over the fatal one-punch attack of grandfather Trevor Duroux, after a "scuffle" at a pub on Queensland's Gold Coast in 2015. Tristan Heather was charged with unlawful striking causing death after he hit Mr Duroux, 40, on the head outside a Coolangatta pub in December 2015 while the 18-year-old was celebrating his birthday. He will need to serve 80 per cent of his sentence before he will be eligible for parole and will be deported back to New Zealand after serving his sentence. Outside the court, Mr Duroux's sister Lavinia called the sentence "pathetic". Photo: Trevor Duroux's life support was switched off after spending 10 days in intensive care. (Facebook: Trevor Duroux) "Yes I know he was a good boy but the things that happened that night showed his characteristics that night, showed what he can do," she said. "My nieces and nephews have to live without their father for the rest of their lives. "Is it just words on paper that make it look harsh?" The charge of unlawful striking causing death carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment and was introduced in 2014 to target one-punch attacks. 18th birthday celebration 'scuffle' Mr Duroux fell to the ground in the incident and was knocked unconscious. His life support was switched off by family after 10 days in intensive care at a Gold Coast hospital. The court heard Heather was out celebrating his 18th birthday with relatives and had not known Mr Duroux before he was invited by a family member to drink with the group. Prosecutor David Nardone said Heather drank at least 13 alcoholic drinks and the incident happened when he saw his friend in a "scuffle" with Mr Duroux outside the pub. "It was there Mr Heather approached the deceased and punched him with a fist to the left side of his face," he said. "[It caused him] to fall to the ground, hitting the right side of his head to the road — he [Heather] fled the scene." Photo: Sister Lavinia Duroux (far right) and family members speak outside court in 2016. (ABC News: Stephanie Smail - file photo) Mr Duroux's relatives were in court for the sentencing hearing, wearing T-shirts with his face printed on them. The prosecutor read victim impact statements on behalf of three of the victim's children, including his son Trevor French. "I am numb — my heart stops at the thought of anyone having to go through this pain," he wrote. "We were torn apart and our family's lives changed forever." Attacker 'genuinely remorseful' In sentencing, Justice James Douglas said he took into account Heather's youth, deep remorse, previous good character, apology and good prospects for the future. "No person can win out of this process for sentencing for you for the crime you have committed." Defence barrister Tim Ryan told the court his client went to help his workmate who was shoving Mr Duroux when Heather landed the fatal punch. "He is genuinely remorseful — [it was] entirely the wrong response," he said. Heather wrote an apology letter, which was given to Mr Duroux's family, but not read out in court. "I'm truly sorry and apologising for my behaviour and actions," Heather wrote to the family. "I am sorry for the terrible grief that I have brought upon your family. "I know that I can never take back the sadness and suffering pain that I have inflicted upon you all. "I can never forgive myself for the events that happened that night." Heather's family and supporters also helped to fill the courtroom, which was overflowing into the jury box, including his partner who is expecting a child later this year. Topics: crime, law-crime-and-justice, courts-and-trials, qld, australia, brisbane-4000, coolangatta-4225, southport-4215 First posted March 08, 2018 15:19:30
This must have been the strangest weekend in the history of the All-Ireland football championship. On Sunday evening, I was in Dublin with my son Mark-Anthony and we stopped to watch the French fans celebrating the World Cup final win on O’Connell Street. They were euphoric and raucous and there was a good crowd in Croatian jerseys there as well. It was wonderful and it seemed like a fitting end to the Super 8s – whatever we had been hoping for or expecting just didn’t materialise. Instead of this being the GAA’s gala weekend for Gaelic football, Dublin city responded to events in Moscow. It was as if nobody quite got what the Super 8s are supposed to be: not the teams, not the supporters, not the media. Nobody. I came away feeling that the whole thing was weird. The atmosphere was subdued. The crowd was small on both days. The quality of football was generally poor with moments of energy and passages of high-quality play. But I remember noting in the Kerry-Galway game that it sparked into life in the 47th (!) minute. The excitement wasn’t there. It was as if everyone was hedging their bets. It was like an all-star cast that lacked direction. Nobody knew what they were supposed to do. And it made for an underwhelming and listless kind of experience. I watched The Sunday Game and the Kilkenny-Limerick hurling quarter final came on. And it was like being transported to a different world. The game was fast, it was intense, it was laden with drama, it felt slightly wild and electrifying: everything that we hope for from this word “championship”. And Gaelic football can produce those qualities too, at its best. But this new format created something in the psyche of all eight teams that inhibited that. Look at the scoreline Roscommon conceded. How do you ship 4-24? That was the inaugural Super 8s game. Nobody is going to tell me that if a team is hell-bent and focused on a game that they are going to cough up that kind of a score. It was a staggering scoreline. Championship football is about putting everything on the line and squeezing every last ounce out of your game. It’s a kind of productive desperation that can make players and teams play slightly beyond their limits. That was absent in the game. This has nothing to do with coaching or tactics. It is 100 percent about mentality and application. I believe Roscommon went in to give it everything and with full heart and honesty ... you could see that in the early passages of the game. They were there to win, they believed in themselves and they started fairly brightly. But Tyrone ground them down and imposed their pattern of play and it became obvious after a while that they had Roscommon’s number. Once that happened, Tyrone had them where they wanted psychologically. Now, in a knock-out championship game that would have presented Roscommon with a stark scenario: either we claw our way back up this hill or we are gone. It is over. But on Saturday, those Roscommon guys couldn’t help but know they had a game to come in Hyde Park. That second chance was not a concern in Thurles. It was all about the next second, the next play and doing everything possible just to survive. That is why it was so raw. Beyond reach At some stage against Tyrone, the realisation occurred in Roscommon minds: well, we have to beat Donegal next week now. Better be sure I am ready for that. And the management may have had the same consideration. At a certain point, you conclude that the game is beyond reach and that it isn’t worth chasing. And then the intensity levels and concentrations and even the interest drops. And Tyrone were able to stroll in for that barrage of late scores. And it is very hard to prevent that from happening. Then you have the Galway-Kerry game on Sunday and with 30,000 people in the stadium on a dull day, the game got off to such a slow-burning start that the crowd fell quiet and we could hear every ball being called for. This can’t have been what was envisaged when this concept was first dreamed up. Kerry-Galway All-Ireland games have a rich history and tradition. There is something seriously wrong if the Super 8s concept is responsible for diluting it to the extent that we saw on Sunday. Why was there such a lack of intensity? It felt like complacency had afflicted both sides. It was like one of those league semi-finals when neither side is certain if they want to be in the final. Three points each after half an hour and no particular urgency; two teams just waiting to see how things played out. The terrible injury to Paul Conroy meant a long break in the half and just added to the heavy feeling around the stadium. Paul is a good lad and has given so much to the Galway cause that this was a very rough way to end what had been a terrific season. I wish him well. But there was a void there; the game was waiting to be seized and Galway eventually capitalised. You could sense a shift in the stadium among the Galway crowd not because the maroon team was doing anything special but with the realisation that Kerry probably weren’t going to make a push, that it was there for Galway. The question went from how would this host of young Kerry stars would do to the realisation that they now had absolute reliance on David Clifford. He, accidentally, became the go-to man. They needed him to even notionally stay in the contest. And Galway became emboldened and the substitutes had a big impact – Peter Cooke stepped in for Conroy and Patrick Sweeney got the crucial goal. So Kevin Walsh has been chipping away all the time and they are seeing the marginal gains required. Beating Kerry ticks a box. It is something no Galway team has done in half a century. Are they All-Ireland contenders? In fact, are any of the other seven teams capable of posing a serious challenge to Dublin? On last weekend’s evidence, the brutal truth is that I didn’t see anyone. I feel Galway have become a hard team to beat and they are adding to their repertoire and confidence levels week by week. They were in control against Kerry for long periods. But I didn’t see enough to convince me they could compete against Dublin in a do-or-die game. In fact, the collective evidence of the weekend made me feel that retaining the title is more on than ever for Dublin now. Because they aren’t going to meet Mayo this year, the one side who have been bloody-minded enough to put it up to them. I didn’t sense that cussedness in any of the other teams on show this weekend. Kildare fed off the oxygen of Newbridge-or-Nowhere but they couldn’t do it off their own oxygen in Croke Park against Monaghan. Tyrone look best-placed to challenge Dublin but until they exorcise last summer’s heavy beating, it is difficult to argue on their behalf with conviction. Heavily defensive In fact, the weekend even raised questions about where – and what – Dublin are right now. It was ironic to hear the Donegal supporters booing the Dublin team for their lack of ambition with the ball. It was as if they weren’t interested in scoring for the last 10 minutes. I couldn’t understand what they were at. The other glaring development in their game is that they are more heavily defensive than ever before. There were times when Dublin had all 15 men behind the ball. There is a myth at large that Tyrone and, to a lesser extent, Galway are the last remaining proponents of the defensive game. That witch-hunt needs to stop. Dublin are just as defensively oriented when it suits them and Kerry also dropped back in huge numbers during the Galway game. The idea that Dublin are some still some kind of advert for flamboyant attacking – for total football – is a delusion that too many are willing to uphold. There is a lot of propaganda in the game now and unfair and unbalanced opinion about who is doing what. If defensive systems are going to described as “negative” tactics, then it needs to be acknowledged that Dublin and Kerry are as well-equipped and as willing to employ them as any other team out there. All we can say about this weekend is that we certainly didn’t get what we had been expecting or hoping for. There was no festival of football. There is a possibility now that the All-Ireland semi-final places will be settled next weekend, leaving the third round essentially meaningless. So in essence, the Super 8s would be reduced to one meaningful round of games – mirroring the quarter-final series but without the immediate thrill and voltage. It seems clear that the public is circumspect about the new format. Let’s say Dublin reach the All-Ireland final. Well, one of the other seven teams will be there. That means five games to play. That’s a huge expense for any supporter. Little wonder that many will pick and choose their games. This weekend felt like a series of league games for which championship ticket prices were applied. On a wet Sunday, with the World Cup final on television, many loyal GAA supporters obviously decided to give it a miss. So, apart from anything else, the Super 8s may not be the cash cow that was imagined. The urgency and interest will be heightened next weekend and the true potential of the new format lies in bringing big championship games on the road. The GAA felt that the football championship needed this new dynamic. But right now it feels as if it has to prove itself. It feels as if the idea will be on trial next weekend. Supporters feed off the energy on the field and the Super 8s needs a few special games now if its potential is to be realised.
Callan's was founded by Kevin's father Hugh in 1941 when, at the age of just 24, he bought a bar and grocery business at 40 Park Street. When Hugh opened his business at 40 Park Street it was in the middle of World War II when food and other commodities were scarce. Through hard work and long hours, Hugh, with the help of his wife Kathleen, successfully established a thriving business. Hugh retired in 1989 and Kevin and Mary took over the reins. They oversaw a period of significant expansion, when in 1993 the opportunity came to purchase the premises next door. This expansion allowed Callan's to cater for ever changing and more diverse tastes. This hard work and desire to offer improved choice to their customers was recognised when Callan's was named the Leinster Off-licence of the year, by the National Off-licence Association. The third generation of Callan's, Niall has developed a successful on-line offering at irishhampers.ie. Indeed, Niall's influence can be seen in store with Callan's craft beer range which, with over 300 beers in stock, is the largest selection in the North-East. This is complimented by a huge array of gins, collectable whiskies and obscure cocktail ingredients. From Japanese whiskey or fine wines, to Dom Perignon or the world's strongest beer, Callan's has over the years come to be the go-to place for the obscure gift for any occasion or budget. Niall has been in the business and has developed a deep knowledge and love for the family trade. He hopes to remain within the drinks industry. While it's certainly an emotional time, Kevin and Mary feel now is the right time to take that step back to enjoy a busy and active retirement with their family Niall, Padraic & Cathriona. Life will certainly be different without their 7-day week vocation but they are looking forward to this exciting chapter in their lives. Kevin, Mary and Niall would like to take this opportunity to thank all their loyal customers and suppliers, as well as the people of Dundalk who supported them over such a long period of time in business. They would also like to thank all their wonderful neighbours and friends that they made over the years in Park Street. Callan's is a licenced premises for both pub and Off-Licence business and will continue to trade until late 2018. It is on the market with Philip A.McArdle & Son Auctioneers and interest should be routed through their office in Dundalk.
But a recently unsealed federal whistleblower lawsuit — first reported by the Flathead Beacon — filed in the spring of 2017 by the chief financial officer of the physician network at the hospital details a litany of of allegations that the hospital had been “knowingly defrauding the federal government.” The document accused the hospital of paying certain specialists far above their value in exchange for them referring more business to the hospital. Rather than paying those specialists in line with the commonly used formula that takes into account time worked, skill and training, Jon Mohatt said in the suit that they instead were paid based on the volume and value of the referrals they generated, which could be a violation of federal law. “Under a scheme of mutual enrichment, Kalispell Regional has paid certain employed physicians far in excess of the value of their personal services while Kalispell Regional received substantial profits from inpatient and outpatient referrals by these physicians,” the lawsuit claims. For example, Mohatt said in fiscal year 2015, the hospital paid specialists at its heart and lung center enough to generate a $5.1 million loss for the program, but at the same time generated $6.9 million in revenue from referrals that center made back to other services at the hospital. In a statement to the Missoulian Friday, a spokesperson for Kalispell Regional Healthcare confirmed that the company is under investigation by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice "for matters regarding compensation to certain physicians." "We do not agree with the allegations and deny any wrongdoing. We have responded to the government’s requests for information and have cooperated fully with the investigation. We are hopeful for a quick resolution," Mellody Sharpton, director of communications and marketing, wrote in the statement. Federal law says that a physician's compensation must be set in advance, while Mohatt said the hospital routinely granted retroactive pay increases and bonuses. The law also requires that a doctor’s pay can’t exceed fair market value and must be “commercially reasonable” even without any referrals to the hospital.
R.B.I. Baseball 18 isn’t the only video game that MLB Advanced Media is making this year. The company announced today that it is also developing MLB Home Run Derby VR, a smaller experience that the studio is planning to release on PlayStation VR and HTC Vive this spring. The batting practice game has its origins in a product that MLBAM created last year, an experimental ballpark attraction that became so wildly successful that the company is expanding it in 2018 — both to additional stadiums and to the gaming audience. It’s a testament to the smart way that MLBAM uses all the parts of the buffalo when it comes to the software it develops. And it’s also a lot of fun. Home Run Derby VR debuted at the 2017 All-Star Game FanFest in Miami, a series of fun baseball-themed events and experiences scheduled around the game for baseball fans to enjoy. MLBAM has been making an annual Home Run Derby game on mobile devices for years, and the company wanted to find a way to turn that app into a life-size experience that could bring fans closer to baseball. The full experience features a batting cage, which is, of course, where the player stands when they’re swinging for the fences. The user puts on an HTC Vive headset and picks up a weighty plastic bat with the Vive Tracker — a small $99 accessory that allows the Vive Lighthouse sensors to follow the bat’s movement — attached to it, and then swings away. You can see a trailer above featuring the ballpark version of Home Run Derby VR, which the league has taken to events around the world in places such as London; Nuremberg, Germany; and Cartagena, Colombia. Jamie Leece, vice president of MLBAM’s gaming and VR division, told Polygon in an interview last fall that the studio designed this version of the game to be a quick experience that takes only about 90 seconds per person — half the time playing, the other half strapping on and then removing the headset — which is crucial. Peter Banks, MLBAM’s director of marketing, said the attraction was so popular that fans often lined up to wait for multiple hours. MLB subsequently worked with the Arizona Diamondbacks and San Diego Padres to bring the full batting cage experience to the clubs’ respective ballparks last fall as a concourse attraction. The league expects that at least 10 teams, and maybe even 15, will get that version of Home Run Derby VR in their own stadiums by the end of the 2018 season. And attendees at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference in Boston this weekend will be able to try it out as well. Home Run Derby VR was developed by the same group at MLBAM that’s making R.B.I. 18, and the team is very focused on getting a lot out of the crossover between its work on multiple pieces of software. “We thought having that core competency, a bigger team here, could not only help the effort of R.B.I., but also help us as these evolving technologies start to spool up,” said Noah Garden, executive vice president of commerce for MLB, discussing MLBAM’s decision to spin up a development team for games and VR. “The effort that we put forth on R.B.I. has really given us sort of a leg up on that.” Back in early 2016, before the hiring of the full team, MLBAM directed its then-small gaming group to develop a television product. The company wanted a way for producers of live MLB broadcasts to integrate the league’s real-time data tracking system, Statcast, into visualizations of baseball plays. This required the team to build digital simulations of all 30 MLB ballparks, an effort that began with the existing stadium models from R.B.I. Baseball 15. And a year later, that work became the basis for Home Run Derby VR. “All of that innovation really came out of that first three-month opportunity to build something for the company that really had nothing to do with video games, but was leveraging all of our knowledge and skills that we’ve developed over a bunch of years,” said Alexander Reyna, director of experience design for MLBAM’s gaming and VR department. I got to try the consumer version of Home Run Derby VR earlier this year at MLBAM’s offices in Manhattan, on both PSVR and Vive. At launch, the game will feature three stadiums done up in their All-Star Game presentation: the home ballparks for the Miami Marlins, Washington Nationals and Cleveland Indians, which are the hosts for the Midsummer Classic in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. I played in the latter two venues and in Fenway Park, which may arrive in the game later as downloadable content. A spokesperson for MLBAM told Polygon that the company will release additional stadiums over time, but did not specify whether or not they’ll be free. (MLBAM will charge for the game, but isn’t announcing pricing yet.) As you would expect, Home Run Derby VR on Vive is superior to the PSVR version, both from a visual and technical perspective. The Vive has a higher-resolution display than PSVR does, and the kind of powerful PC necessary to run it can produce a more detailed rendering of the stadiums than a PlayStation 4 can. With the PlayStation Move wand that’s used to play the game on PSVR, you can pretty much just flick your wrist and hit a homer. Obviously, playing the Vive version with a life-size bat really goes a long way in making the game feel immersive, but the tracking also seemed better there than on PSVR. Yet the difference, though palpable, isn’t massive. PSVR owners shouldn’t feel like they’ll be missing out on a much better experience, because they won’t; I still had a great time with both versions. There’s definitely an adjustment period in going straight from one to the other like I did — which, obviously, is something that almost nobody will be doing in practice. And just from a few hacks, you quickly get an intuitive sense of what kind of movement will lead to long streaks of home runs. I know I did!
WINDHOEK – Namibia’s first and largest mobile telecommunications operator, MTC, has confirmed that it has parted ways with its advertising agent, Weathermen & Co, a subsidiary of the Ohlthaver & List (O&L) Group. MTC’s advertising contract is estimated to be worth between N$30 million and N$40 million on an annual basis. In a joint statement issued by MTC and Weathermen & Co, on June 6, 2018, the companies announced that they would be parting ways. Thanking Weathermen for their dedicated service following their appointment in June 2017, MTC’s Chief Human Capital and Corporate Affairs Officer, Tim Ekandjo said: “We are extremely thankful for having partnered with Weathermen and our brand has benefitted immensely from their creative genius, but it is time to move on and we wish them well.” Commenting on the separation, Leon Crous, MD of Weathermen & Co said: “We wish to thank MTC for entrusting us with their brand. After numerous discussions, both parties agree that it is time to move on, and we equally wish them all the best.” Ekandjo added that MTC will with immediate effect re-advertise the advertising agency tender and allow the process to take due course in search for another agency as necessitated by the fact that MTC is in the process of revamping its marketing strategy. Weathermen & Co originated in The Jupiter Drawing Room Cape Town in February 2013. The company was started by a group of agency executives with extensive expertise in the management and creative execution of numerous O&L Brands. “What started as a discussion about the needs and wants of O&L with Jupiter CT, turned into a company determined to take over the world of advertising in Namibia – a company that now boasts some of the country’s largest corporates as clientele,” said O&L Group Executive Chairman, Sven Thieme, last year while celebrating four years of Weathermen & Co in Namibia.
“We have compiled a list of officers and farmers suspected to have been involved in the scam and their names will be made public tomorrow,” said Mr Mue, adding that they will appear in court soon. Leaders from the North Rift have demanded an independent audit to determine the quantity of maize delivered to the depots. Led by Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and his Moiben counterpart Sila Tiren, they said the audit will expose individuals behind the scandal. “We want to see action that will bring an end to this menace that has been affecting farmers. It can’t be business as usual when our farmers are suffering,” said the MP who is a member of the Agriculture committee.
Thimphu dzongkhag court’s criminal bench I on June 4 sentenced a 27-year-old man to five years in prison for drug trafficking. Dilip Kumar Gurung from Norbuzingkha village, Dagana was arrested at the Lungtenzampa bus terminal in Thimphu with 241 capsules of Spasmo Proxyvon plus (SP+) on December 8, 2017. He was charged with third degree felony for violating the Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substance and Substance Abuse Act 2015. Dilip Kumar Gurung admitted in court that the controlled substances were found in his possession. However, he said that the controlled substances were bought from Jaigaon at the behest of his friend Sonam Tenzin. He told the court that he bought the drugs worth Nu 2,800 from a drug store in Jaigaon, India and reached the bus terminal that day but before he could hand over the goods, police arrested him. “I bought it for my friend, I had never taken drugs or sold to any person,” he said. The judgment stated that no matter what others might say, it is up to the individual to comply or not and the person who obliges the request to procure the controlled substance is liable for penalty. The court ruled that he had violated the NDPSSAA section 139 (b). The section states that a defendant shall be guilty of the offence of Illicit trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances if he or she possesses, imports, exports, stores, sells, purchases, transports, distributes, or supplies any substance under Schedules III and IV of this Act regardless of the degree of purity. A person according to the NDPSSAA 2017 would be allowed to carry 10 pieces in case of tablets and capsules of narcotic drugs having medicinal value provided the person has a prescription from a certified medical practitioner. The permissible quantity for psychotropic substances having medicinal value is 15 pieces in case of tablets and capsules for a person prescribed by a doctor. The court judgment ruled that the convict had confessed to the crime in accordance with section 84 and 85 of the Evidence Act of Bhutan voluntarily, independently or under any undue influence. Since Dilip Kumar Gurung was detained in police custody for a month and 17 days before he was granted bail, he has to serve four years and 10 months in prison. The court order states that the police and the OAG should jointly handover the confiscated illegal drugs to the relevant agency and to report it to the court.
We've all been there - you've had a skinful on a night out and suddenly your favourite song comes on. Cue; dancing feet. In sober, everyday life you're coordinated and graceful. Late on a Saturday night/early Sunday morning, however, it's a very different story. Lauder McWilliams and his girlfriend, Taylor Reid were on such a night out on 3 February in Bamboo nightclub in Glasgow. Lauder freely admits "neither of us are particularly good dancers," but then adds "but Taylor takes bad dancing to a different level. "Most nights it gets to the point where I find myself just watching her and laughing at some of moves that she comes out with," he tells MirrorOnline. She sounds like our kind of girl! Having witnessed some of her fearless moves on Saturday, Lauder then posted a video of Taylor strut her stuff to Maggie Lindemann's Pretty Girl, and wrote: "Least I know I don't ever have to worry about guys coming up to my girlfriend in the club with moves like these." In trying to poke a little gentle fun at Taylor, however, Lauder got a huge reaction - and created an inspirational partying demigod. As for the response to the video, which has since gone viral, Lauder says: "I only had a small amount of followers before this so I just thought we'd maybe only get a few likes from Taylor’s friends that were just having a laugh at her moves. "I never expected it to blow up the way that it did and for it to be shared in so many countries as it has been. "I think it is insane how many people have now seen the video and I am so glad people find it as funny as we did."
Forget what you’ve read in science fiction novels, or saw in television and movies regarding romantic liaisons and child-rearing in outer space. Recent scientific studies have revealed some cold, hard facts about what human procreation could mean once we start long space trips and visits to other planets such as Mars. According to a Space.com report, women traveling to Mars could be sterilized from radioactive particles “bombarding” the spacecraft while en route to the red planet. “The present shielding capabilities would probably preclude having a pregnancy transited to Mars,” radiation biophysicist Tore Straume of NASA Ames Research Center, lead author of the review published in the Journal of Cosmology said in the article. Those same particles, which are generated from sun flares and other outer space phenomena, could also impact the reproductive systems of males, according to the article. The report said that even streams of low dose radioactive particles would likely damage egg cells in females and sperm cells in males. Children conceived in space could also face damage to cells as they develop, such as the brain, possibly causing mental challenges and other detrimental conditions. If that’s not bad enough, the report said that once on Mars, the lower gravitational pull, about one-third that of the Earth, would impact muscle development and the normal growth processes that we take for granted here, according to a BGR.com article. Scientists are not sure if a woman could even carry and give birth to a child on Mars due to the environmental differences. If they could, scientists say such offspring would likely be an entirely new sub-species of humans, according to the article. This intergenerational puzzle will need a solution of some kind before mankind ventures too far out into the cosmos because of the time and vast distances they would need to cover, making procreation a vital part of successful space travel and colonization of any planets visited, according to the article. The need is so great that some scientists say romance may not be a factor and that men and women could be paired off together to procreate by determining whose genes demonstrate the best chance for survival. Another Space.com article says that currently, sex in space is taboo among astronauts. NASA Astronaut Alan Poindexter told reporters during a press conference in Japan that there is little time or focus on sex while on a mission in space. “We are a group of professionals,” he said in the article. “We treat each other with respect and we have a great working relationship. Personal relationships are not… an issue. We don’t have them and we won’t.”
The Catholic Church in Ireland, in which I am pleased to serve on my local parish pastoral council, has been arrogant in relation to its members and to other Christian churches. Many of its members need to be evangelised and many parishes need to move from maintenance to the mission Jesus called for. There are wonderful models of this in process in Baltimore in the United States (churchnativity.tv) and Nova Scotia in Canada (saintbenedict.ca), which are becoming inspirational to many Catholics in Ireland. In both, the parish priests chose to learn from successful Protestant and Pentecostal churches in their countries. This takes humility. I co-ordinated a cross-denominational response to the Eighth Amendment calling for a No vote, signed by 51 evangelical Catholic bishops, priests and lay leaders and 72 Protestant and Pentecostal ministers from every county in Ireland. Confirmation has sadly almost become the “sacrament of exit” from the Catholic Church In the process many Christians from different denominations built bridges of friendship, foundations for a spiritual awakening in Ireland. Jesus prayed that his followers might be one so that the world might believe. I questioned why God had not answered my prayers for a No verdict, but realised that he respected the free will of people so much that he would not interfere. Our people chose “the way of the nations.” In doing so they rejected not just the teaching of the Catholic Church, but God’s way. Mary McAleese, the former president, has rightly emphasised the primacy of conscience, referring to Catholic catechism section 1782. However, she omits mention of the subsequent qualifying sections, especially section 1802, which states that it is essential to inform one’s conscience by sacred scripture and not only by Church teaching: “The word of God is a light for our path. We must assimilate it in faith and prayer and put it into practice. This is how moral conscience is formed.” Mrs McAleese is well versed on church teaching but what role does scripture play in her reckoning? I agree with her when she says that over the centuries many things were taught “with great passion that quietly now have been abandoned by the very magisterium that taught them”. I find it very frustrating that the church often doesn’t just acknowledge that they got it wrong in the past and repent of it. Her assertion that baptised children are “infant conscripts” is grossly insulting to parents who sincerely wish to raise their children in their own faith tradition, be it Catholic, Church of Ireland or Presbyterian. Reform in the Catholic Church can, with the help of the Holy Spirit, lead to Christian unity and the re-evangelisation of Ireland I do accept there can be a routine, culturally traditional attitude towards the subsequent sacraments of first Holy Communion and Confirmation. Confirmation has sadly almost become the “sacrament of exit” from the Catholic Church. I would like to see it delayed to age 16 (as in some countries). There would be far fewer candidates, but they would be freely choosing to personally follow Christ. For Mrs McAleese to say “Jesus Christ would be better represented by those celebrating marriage equality” is appalling. Jesus upheld marriage between men and women and condemned all immorality (both heterosexual and homosexual) for his followers. All are free to follow or not. I totally agree with Pope Francis that marriage as God intended is solely between a man and a woman. The World Meeting of Families will shortly celebrate this. Again he is doing no more than echoing the words of scripture that God initiated marriage between men and women. Reform in the Catholic Church can, with the help of the Holy Spirit, lead to Christian unity and the re-evangelisation of Ireland. Portents of this include the cross-denominational New Wine Family Conference in Sligo this week, being attended by nearly 2,000 people. Ireland can again become a light to the nations, but only if reform in the Catholic Church, and indeed in all the other Christian churches, is Christ-centred and scripturally based.
Microsoft has revealed its plans for E3 2018 in a new blog post on Xbox Wire and this year it’s trying something new. Over the past few years, Microsoft has stuck to a tradition of hosting its press conference in the Galan Center in Los Angeles before opening a huge booth on the Los Angeles Convention Center show floor with playable demos. This year however, Xbox is moving both its media briefing and its hands-on experiences to the Microsoft Theater. Though Microsoft will still have a booth in the main convention center, it’ll be dedicated to its Mixer streaming service. This would go some way to explaining all those floor plans showing a comparatively small Microsoft booth that were doing the rounds earlier in the year. This change appears to be in response to the increased attendance numbers and scale of the show which has resulted from opening the doors to the public. “Not only does the Microsoft Theater allow us to centralize our Xbox presence at E3,” Mike Nichols, Corporate Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer said, “but its size enables us to include even more fans and partners in the Xbox E3 2018 Briefing than ever before.” Microsoft wouldn’t be the first big name in the industry to abandon the show floor for a more fan-focused event – EA has been doing the same with EA Play for a few years now. Microsoft’s E3 press conference will take place on June 10 at 1pm PT/ 9pm GMT though at the moment we’re not sure what we can expect. After the big reveal of Xbox One X in 2017, we’re expecting a more software focused affair. Will we see a glimpse of the rumored Fable 4? Perhaps Gears of War 5? Or maybe, just maybe, Halo 6? We don’t have long to wait to find out.
The special counsel investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin has stepped up pressure on the former campaign manager Paul Manafort by filing new sealed court charges against him. Reuters saw a court record referring to the sealed charges, which were also directed against Rick Gates, Manafort’s former business associate, but the documents provided no details on the nature of the charges. It was not clear if the charges involved alleged bank frauds the special counsel’s office referred to in a court dispute over Manafort’s bail on Friday, in which he is said to have doctored profit and loss statements from his firm, in order to get a mortgage on a property in Virginia. NBC News reported on Wednesday that Manafort was being investigated for having allegedly promised the president of the Chicago-based Federal Savings Bank that loaned him his mortgage a job in the Trump White House in return for $16m in home loans on his properties in Virginia, New City and the Hamptons. The bank president, Stephen Calk, served as a Trump adviser during the campaign but did not get a cabinet post. His ties to Manafort were first reported last year by Bloomberg News. Manafort, who was Trump’s campaign manager for almost five months in 2016, and Gates, who was deputy campaign manager, were indicted by the special counsel, the former FBI chief Robert Mueller, in October. They face charges including conspiracy to launder money, conspiracy to defraud the United States and failure to file as foreign agents for lobbying work they did on behalf of the pro-Russian Ukrainian Party of Regions. Both have pleaded not guilty. The new charges and the leaked details of an investigation into Manafort home loans come a day after Alex van der Zwaan, a Dutch lawyer who worked with Manafort and Gates in representing pro-Russian interests in Ukraine, admitted lying to investigators as part of a plea deal with Mueller’s office. Gates is also reported to be negotiating a plea deal, increasing the pressure on Manafort to cooperate with the Russia investigation. Manafort is currently under house arrest and is seeking to agree bail to allow him to move freely, but Mueller’s office is disputing the value of the assets, including his various properties, arguing that they were vulnerable to foreclosure, because of what Mueller’s office says is newly uncovered evidence of “additional criminal conduct”. The special counsel’s office declined to comment on the new court filing, lawyers and representatives for Manafort and Gates could not be immediately reached for comment. Mueller was appointed in May 2017 to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election campaign, possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Moscow with Russia and whether Trump tried to obstruct the investigation. Trump has denied any collusion and has denounced the investigation as a witch-hunt.
Hawaii Island police have charged a 49-year-old Honaunau man in connection with the shooting incident on Painted Church Road in South Kona on Saturday afternoon. On Tuesday morning, after conferring with county prosecutor’s, Brian Lee Smith was charged with one count of attempted-murder in the first degree, one count of murder in the second degree, one count of attempted-murder in the second degree, two counts of ownership or possession (firearm) prohibited, and two counts of carrying or use of firearm in the commission of a separate felony. Smith remains hospitalized in Honolulu and upon release will be returned to Hawaii Island for his initial court appearance. He is currently in police custody; bail is set at $1,150,000. Smith was initially arrested at 6:15 p.m., Sunday evening, with the assistance of the Honolulu Police Department Criminal Investigation Division. Responding to a call of a shooting incident on Painted Church Road in South Kona just before 3:00 p.m., Saturday afternoon, officers confirmed one person dead at the scene. He was later positively identified as Thomas Ballesteros Jr., 42-years-old, with no permanent address. It was also determined that two other males were injured, including the possible suspect (later identified as Smith), both had left the scene before officer’s arrival. Both males were later located and treated for non-life threatening gunshot injuries. The other victim remains hospitalized. Detectives with the Area II Criminal Investigation Section are continuing the investigation. The possible motive that led to the confrontation is being investigated at this time; however, police believe that Smith and Ballesteros were acquaintances.
The league sent out a memo about the hotline in the aftermath of a scathing report from Sports Illustrated on the Dallas Mavericks and complaints about sexual harassment and abuse within the organization’s workplace. The report outlined sexual harassment allegations against former team CEO Terdema Ussery and a history of domestic abuse from former Mavs.com writer Earl Sneed. Mavericks owner Mark Cuban said he was aware of Sneed’s history but said he was unaware of any accusations regarding Ussery.
WINDHOEK (Reuters) - Namibia’s health minister said on Tuesday it had recorded its first case of listeriosis, the biggest recorded outbreak of which has killed over 180 people and infected almost 970 in neighbouring South Africa. Bernard Haufiku told Namibia’s parliament the victim was a 41-year-old man who was fighting for his life in hospital in the capital of the southern African nation. According to Haufiku, the man ate a sausage he bought at a butcher’s shop in Tsumeb, about 475 km (300 miles) north of Windhoek, which is believed to be the source of the toxic bug. “We were already prepared as a country when we heard there was a break out in South Africa,” the minister said. Last week, Namibia suspended imports of processed meat from South Africa after the outbreak was linked to a factory that makes polony, a cheap sausage. A human rights lawyer plans to launch a class action lawsuit against South African food producer Tiger Brands on behalf of the families of people who died and others affected by the South African outbreak. Tiger Brands said on Friday a department of health report had confirmed the presence of the LST6 listeria strain its factory in the northern city of Polokwane and it was appointing a team to identify the causes.
A Navy hospital corpsman assigned to Kaneohe Bay is missing after an early Sunday morning altercation at Kelley O’Neil’s bar in Waikiki that involved a Marine companion, the Marine Corps and family said. Seaman Shaun Palmer is assigned to the 1st Battalion, 3rd Marines at Marine Corps Base Hawaii. “Please help me find my son,” his mom, Diane, tweeted, adding that her son’s phone is dead and there has been no activity on his credit cards. The sailor was last seen at Kelley O’Neil’s, she said. “There are a lot of unknowns, and we’re just hoping that he turns up tonight. We have no reason to think that he wouldn’t,” Marine Corps spokesman Capt. Eric Abrams said in a phone interview. “We don’t have information that anything else is in play.” Palmer was with a Marine who was arrested after a “low-key” altercation, Abrams said. No major injuries were reported, and the Marine was later released, he said. A missing person’s report has been filed with the Honolulu Police Department and Palmer’s command is working closely with local and military officials to find the missing sailor, the Marines said. Palmer was not scheduled to participate in any Rim of the Pacific exercises, the Corps said. Mae Dean, a manager at Kelley O’Neil’s, said the altercation happened around closing time at 4 a.m. when everyone was being asked to leave the bar. She was at work on Sunday morning and one of Palmer’s supervisors came by looking for him, she said. “From what I understand, we’ve already checked the (video) tapes,” Dean said. “I just spoke to the (Naval Criminal Investigative Service), they just left five minutes ago, and there was nothing that we saw on camera, because it was really crowded at the time.” NCIS “asked to see our cameras, and we complied,” she said. Investigators “didn’t see anything (either),” she said. Palmer’s mother said her son canceled a Lyft ride at 4:30 a.m. that morning.
The Nipah virus has two strains — Malaysia (NiVM) and Bangladesh (NiVB). Both the strains have high fatality rates, between 60% and 85%, the scientists said. “Studies in Bangladesh have revealed that consumption of palm sap infected with bat urine and saliva was mostly responsible for the transmission of the infection from bats to humans and then humans to humans as well,” NIV scientist Pragya Yadav said.
Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved today said it is pulling out of its proposed Rs 6,000-crore mega food processing project along the Yamuna Expressway, citing non-cooperation from the state government. However, the UP government said it has given one more month to Patanjali to meet the conditions required to get the final approval. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) could not get the required clearances for transfer of land from the state government, said a top company official. The Hairdwar-based company had proposed to invest up to Rs 6,000 crore to set up a plant in 425 acres of land at YEIDA to cater the domestic and export markets through its step-down firm Patanjali Food & Herbal Park. Confirming the development, Patanjali Ayurved Managing Director Acharya Balkrishna told PTI: “We are cancelling the project as we did not get required clearances from the UP state government.” The company now plans to shift the project to some other state, he said without disclosing further details. Citing the reason for pulling out of the state, he said, “We did not get any cooperation from the state government for this project. We have waited for long time for the clearances but could not get from the state government. Now we have decided to shift the project.” Patanjali was given one-month extension by the Ministry of Food Processing Industries till end of June to get the requisite clearances to start the project. When contacted Food Processing Secretary J P Meena told PTI:” Patanjali was given four months time to meet the conditions required to get the final approval. There are four to five conditions, including land and bank loans, which any party that wants to set up mega food park has to fulfil.” Meena further said, “We have not cancelled the project. We have given one month extension to Patanjali… they have to meet the condition. In case, Patanjali does not meet the condition, we have no choice but to cancel. We have done it earlier in many projects.” Patanjali had already got support from the financial institutions for the project, Balkrishna claimed. “We got extensions two times from the Ministry of Food Processing Industries and now it (time) is lapsing as we could not get the required clearances from the state government,” Balakrishna said. Mega food parks are to be implemented within 30 months and financial assistance is provided to them by the central government. Earlier, Patanjali had said that its Yamuna Expressway-based plant would produce goods worth Rs 25,000 crore annually, if it runs to its full capacity. It would create 10,000 direct jobs, Patanjali had said. Patanjali is presently investing in mega food park projects, including Nagpur (MP) and Tejpur (Assam).
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York and surrounding states were gearing up for a second winter storm within a week on Wednesday, with less wind but more snow predicted this time around as thousands remain without power from the last nor’easter. Between six and 12 inches (15 and 30 cm) of snow are forecast for New York City and the surrounding suburbs in New Jersey and Connecticut through to Thursday morning, with wind gusts creating “near-white out conditions” for commuters, the National Weather Service said on Wednesday. All schools were closed in Philadelphia while schools across the region canceled classes or shortened the school day ahead of the storm on Wednesday, local media reported. The storm will spread west into Pennsylvania and up past Boston into New England where some locations may get as much as two feet (60 cm) of snow. Snowfall may turn to wintry rain in some areas, depending on how much of the storm stays out at sea. This week’s storm is not forecast to have the hurricane-strength winds whipped up at times by thestorm last week, but forecasters say strong gusts of 60 miles per hour (96.56 kmph) and accumulated snow will still be sufficient to knock down more power lines. Some 250,000 homes and businesses in the region were still without power on Tuesday after the previous nor’easter. The governors of New Jersey and Pennsylvania declared states of emergency, which gives them access to support from the U.S. government if needed. New Jersey’s Department of Health warned of treacherous driving conditions. NYC Emergency Management said the city had 234,000 tons of rock salt on hand and was deploying 693 salt spreaders. City officials advised residents to avoid roads and stick to mass transit instead. Amtrak canceled some of its Wednesday trains between Washington and Boston as well as some services in Pennsylvania, New York state and other areas of the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic United States. (Reporting by Jonathan Allen in New York, Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky, William Maclean)
The water regulator for England and Wales is to investigate why thousands of homes suffered water shortages in the wake of the recent cold weather. Homes and businesses faced days without running water after pipes burst during a thaw which followed freezing weather conditions. Ofwat will look at how prepared water firms were and what support they subsequently offered customers. It said at the time that companies had "fallen well short". Some water companies handed out bottled water as some households were without a mains supply for three days. More than 20,000 homes were affected in London, where schools were forced to close and people were advised to take shorter showers as Thames Water repaired burst pipes. In Wales, 3,000 properties lost supply and there were delays in distributing bottled water to certain areas. West Midlands-based carmaker Jaguar Land Rover closed plants to preserve water for homes, hospitals and schools, while the chocolate maker Cadbury sent workers home from its Bournville plant. Water companies are obliged by the regulator to compensate customers who have had their supply disrupted for an extended period of time. Most companies are being more generous than the minimum compensation available under Ofwat guidelines. Customers will not have to do anything to receive the compensation - they should receive a letter from their water companies in the coming days. Ofwat chief executive Rachel Fletcher said the regulator expects compensation to be "fair, fast and free from hassle for customers". Both suppliers and customers affected will contribute to the review. "To be left without a vital public service like water - in some cases for several days - is deeply distressing, particularly for those in vulnerable circumstances, " Ms Fletcher said. Any evidence that firms had breached their statutory obligations or licence conditions could result in regulatory action, Ofwat said. The review is due to publish its findings by June 15.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi keeps emphasising upon the spirit of Team India – where the people, governments, and systems rise above all their differences and make things happen. On the one hand, 17 taxes and multiple cesses getting subsumed into one tax showed the flexibility of our economy and our business class. On the other hand, people of 29 states and 7 union territories, their elected governments, and the Union Government came together and showed the ‘Team India for New India’ spirit. GST, as a conceptual framework was being discussed since long. However, mere conceptual frameworks cannot decide the course of a structural reform as big as ‘One Nation One Tax’. This needed, most importantly, winning the trust of various stakeholders such as State governments across political lines and building consensus for an idea whose time had come. This is where the personal credibility of the Narendra Modi as someone who understands the viewpoints of State governments and the importance of cooperative federalism proved to be a game-changer. He managed to win over States, convincing them that the Centre would stand with them through the transformation and beyond. No matter what the Centre-State rhetoric is during elections, the introduction of the GST showed that State governments trusted the Modi government. State governments too played a constructive role rising above political considerations. Working together, the GST Council came up with the tax rates for about 1,200 items and has held 27 meetings so far. Through the GST Council that works based on the consensus of the Centre and States, the Modi government has set a benchmark for cooperative federalism. Not only have governments worked hard to make GST work, but the people have also responded with enthusiasm, without which an exercise of this scale would not have gone through. The number of taxpayers added in just the last one year indicates the movement towards higher tax compliance. In 70 years, 66 lakh tax-paying enterprises were added. In just one year of GST, an additional 48 lakh have been added, taking the total taxpayer count to more than 1 crore. In fact, April 2018 clocked a record in terms of tax collection with the GST collections crossing the Rs 1 trillion mark for the first time since the new tax regime was rolled out. While higher compliance shows people’s willingness to be tax compliant and the ability of technology to provide ease of compliance via the GSTN portal, GST has been a boost for Ease of Doing Business too. Even before the GST was rolled out, India recorded a 42-rank jump in the Ease of Doing Business rankings under the Modi government. GST is slated to improve this even further, inviting more investment, more jobs and higher economic growth, potentially perpetuating a virtuous cycle for India. The biggest beneficiaries of GST, however, have been the common people of India for whom it has reduced the tax burden. For example, before GST, if you wanted to eat out in Bengaluru, you would have paid about 20.5 per cent tax over the actual price of your food. However, after GST, people are paying only 5 per cent tax on the same. With the indirect tax component being directly shown on bills, consumers also become more conscious about their contribution to the economy and their rights. Some daily consumables like fresh fruits and vegetables, cereals, curd etc., are exempt from GST while many other items important for households have been placed in the 5 per cent slab, many of which had a higher tax incidence earlier. The multiple slab approach turned out to be a boon for the poor and the middle class as it controlled price rise by separating essential items from others. Further, transportation trucks are now said to be covering 44 per cent more distance than they used to, thanks to GST. Logistics costs too are said to have fallen to 10-12 per cent of the total value of goods as opposed to 14 per cent earlier. The removal of cascading effect of taxes, efficient supply chains and end of multiplicity of taxes also means businesses are breathing easier and translating the benefits to consumers. The anti-profiteering clause also protects the consumers’ interests in ensuring that the benefits of GST are passed onto them as well. The economy has responded to the GST with great enthusiasm. By adapting to the new taxation system and clocking 7.7 per cent GDP growth in Q4 of FY 18, the Indian economy has silenced naysayers and shown the people's ability to embrace change. With the Prime Minister calling for the nation to target double digit growth in future and with India regaining the ‘fastest growing’ tag, the road ahead is looking positive. This era may go down as one that catapulted India into the big league and much of the credit for it will be with the ‘Good and Simple Tax’ that the Narendra Modi led government has successfully implemented. Dear Reader, we want Swarajya to be a slightly different platform when compared to the other websites and portals. Our team would love to regularly step off the news cycle and do stories that need a lot of time and patience. These are the kinds of stories that really matter, stories that go beyond the shouting matches and outrage wars. We want to do stories that really affect the lives of Indians and the future of the Indian state.
The statewide teachers’ strike in West Virginia — one of the biggest in the nation in years — could signal the beginning of a new trend: a revolt against austerity policies. The nine-day walkout, which ended Tuesday, was highly unusual. Teachers don’t leave their classrooms unless they’re seriously fed up, and West Virginia’s teachers were mad as hell. Austerity policies have squeezed them more and more each year: They earned, on average, $45,622 in 2016, with West Virginia ranking 47th among the states in teacher salaries, according to the National Education Association. Only Oklahoma, Mississippi and South Dakota paid less, and Oklahoma teachers, encouraged by the West Virginia walkout, are also considering a strike. West Virginia’s 20,000 public schoolteachers have not received an across-the-board raise since 2014. Early this year, West Virginia’s Republican governor, Jim Justice, offered them a 1 percent a year raise for the next five years, but if inflation averages 2 percent a year for that period, this translates into an effective 5 percent pay cut. Lawmakers defended the 1 percent raises as fiscally responsible, but teachers saw them as an affront. Adding to the pain, West Virginia told its school employees that many of them would have to start paying $300 more a month in health care premiums. The strike ended only after the governor signed a bill giving them a 5 percent raise effective July 1 — so instead of getting 1 percent a year, they get 5 percent this year. West Virginia’s teachers were like the proverbial frog in water that was slowly being brought to a boil. But this frog realized what was happening and jumped. Moreover, state officials added insult to financial injury. When teachers from a few counties held protests in early February, Governor Justice belittled them, calling them “dumb bunnies.” Then the state health plan told teachers that if they didn’t download and use a “wellness app,” Go365, to track their steps, they would be penalized $500 a year. Among those on strike was Rebecca Diamond, a second grade teacher in Wayne County, who earns just $39,000 a year after 19 years on the job. She told HuffPost that she works as a cashier at Hardee’s on weekends, for $8.75 an hour, to help support her family. When she started teaching, she knew that it wouldn’t make her rich, she said, “but I thought it would be enough.” Austerity in West Virginia looks different from other places that have responded to recessions with budget cuts. In Britain, lawmakers cut public services, but they also raised taxes. In West Virginia, Republicans have used their trifecta power — the party controls the governor’s mansion and both houses of the Legislature, as they do in 25 other states — to cut per-pupil school spending, and that came after the state approved $425 million in bipartisan tax cuts. Teachers say these budget cuts and tax cuts have hurt them, along with the quality of education. West Virginia has more than 700 unfilled teaching positions, as teachers head to jobs in neighboring Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania that pay far more. Instead of raising pay to attract qualified applicants, West Virginia officials want to reduce certification standards. Oklahoma is facing its own severe teacher shortage, and dozens of schools in the state have shortened the school week to four days to cut costs. Teachers in Oklahoma have been following the West Virginia strike closely and are planning their own protests and strategies for a possible walkout. Teachers’ unions in Kentucky and Arizona are also watching. Jennifer Ward Bolander, a special-education teacher in Kentucky, told Bloomberg, “It’s definitely a subject of everyday water-cooler conversation now.” These rumblings come as the Supreme Court weighs a case in which the conservative majority is expected to rule that requiring government employees to pay union fees violates their First Amendment rights. That decision is likely to weaken unions by reducing their membership and income. And if public-sector unions grow weaker and less effective in winning adequate raises, then teachers and other public servants might get so fed up that, as in West Virginia, they go on strike en masse. Shortly before Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin unveiled his plan to gut most public-sector unions’ ability to bargain in 2011, he said, “We can no longer live in a society where the public employees are the haves and taxpayers who foot the bills are the have-nots.” Seven years later, after Republicans have enacted austerity measures (and often anti-union policies) in state after state, West Virginia’s teachers have a very different message: We are the have-nots. Katie Endicott, a high school English teacher from Gilbert, told T he Times, “I live paycheck to paycheck.” When she learned about the spike in health care premiums and then the pay raise of only 1 percent, she said, “I knew I can’t just sit back. I can’t be complacent — something has to change.” Ms. Endicott said she and her fellow teachers drew strength from their state’s proud history of coal miners’ strikes. “We come from an area that is known for standing up for what they believe in.” she said. “We’re just reviving the movement that was started years ago.” And they may, in turn, inspire others.
The international community and investors have been assured of the current regime’s commitment towards continued implementation of strategies and policies towards achieving economic development. The Vice President Yemi Osinbajo gave the assurance on Monday while speaking in Abuja at the 2nd capital market stakeholders’ forum organised by Senate and House of Representatives Committees on capital market and institutions in collaboration with Securities and Exchange Commission and other stakeholders. According to him, some of the initiatives include: Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), unprecedented investments in capital projects in the past three years, tax incentives and the Ease of Doing Business. Osinbajo who was represented by Patience Oniha, Director General, Debt Management Office said the strategies and policies are aimed at attracting “investors into various sectors of the Nigerian economy with the aim of growing and diversifying the economy, creating jobs and improving the quality of life.” While also noting the importance of Nigerian capital market in the attainment of these objectives, he said: “Financial markets are known to be engines of growth because of the strategic role they play in the flow of funds to businesses and governments. There is extensive literature on the fact that there is a strong positive correlation between the level of development of the financial system and economic development, for the simple reason that financial markets act as intermediaries between lenders and borrowers. “While this correlation is certainly the case for the advanced market economies, the same cannot be said for Nigerian capital market in the areas of legislations, regulations, technology and products amongst others which have attracted local and foreign investors to the market and I would like to commend the regulators and operators alike for these achievements.” Osinbajo further noted “There is however, room for innovation, increased depth and efficiency of the capital market and this represents an opportune time for these to begin to occur in anticipation of increased and more sophisticated demand for capital market products,” He also tasked the stakeholders to come up with “creative ways for enabling small and medium businesses to access capital will also be considered as they have a great potential for growth, job creation and effective source of local resources.” The President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki in his speech presented by Senator Philip Aduda said the Capital market, can be a catalyst for development “The role of the capital market, and the institutions integral to it, must be emboldened to drive development in the private sector. This means that the fiscal, advisory and empowerment responsibility of our financial institutions will be called on now, more than ever, in entrenching economic policies that will elicit development in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country. “I have always maintained that the role of the National Assembly is to give the right platform for all sectors of the economy to thrive. The platform to grow businesses, to draw foreign investments into the country, to sustain meaningful and mutually beneficial investments via bilateral and multilateral instruments. This is our law making responsibility for the economy,” Saraki said. In his remarks, Speaker Yakubu Dogara re- echoed the commitment of the National Assembly to the development of the capital market, adding that that the parliament has so far delivered some of the legislative actions enunciated in the communique issued at the maiden capital market stakeholders’ forum held in June, 2016. Represented by Majority Deputy Chief Whip, Pally Iriase, he said: “it is instructive to note that the National Assembly has recorded relevant milestones that is expected to drive the operations of Nigeria’s capital market. “These include: passage of demutualisation bill, ongoing amendment of CAMA Act, public hearing held on the amendment of relevant sections of Investment and Securities Act, 2007; review of the Warehouse receipts and other related bills; arbitration and conciliation bill; ports and harbour bill; Nigerian Roads Fund bill; CISI bill; Railway bill; He noted there were other legislative intervention through public hearings on ‘downward trend of the capital market’, bonds, securities and private placement and other related bill” currently receiving attention at the National Assembly.
New Delhi [India], July 19 (ANI): Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the death of noted poet and lyricist, Gopaldas Saxena, known as 'Neeraj'. "Saddened by the demise of noted poet and lyricist Shri Gopaldas 'Neeraj.' Shri Neeraj's unique style connected him with people from all walks of life, across generations. His works are unforgettable gems, which will live on and inspire many. Condolences to his admirers," he tweeted. Shri Neeraj's unique style connected him with people from all walks of life, across generations. His works are unforgettable gems, which will live on and inspire many. Condolences to his admirers.
A brace from Lukong Fonyuy ensured the Abakwa boys maitained their firm grip at the top, though just a point ahead of Canon of Yaounde who recorded a 3-1 win over AS Matelots of Douala. Tonnerre of Yaounde are three points off the top spot after they were held to a goalless draw by Bang Bullet of Nkambe as the race for promotion winds down. With just six match days left to play, the Abakwa boys need four wins to secure an automatic promotion and possibly the championship title.
Lahore, Pakistan - In her twenties, Jannat Ali dreamt of walking outside as a woman. Society, however, wanted her to live in one of two gender boxes. But she never fully identified with either. "I always felt uncomfortable sitting with boys," she says, describing her experience while in school. Ali, who now identifies as a transgender woman, would save pocket money to take dance classes, telling her family she was attending yoga. "When I was dancing, I was free - wherever I was," she told Al Jazeera. Her dance performances have been broadcast on Pakistani TV networks, attracting publicity and, at times, drawing the concern of her family. "What would people say," her family members would say, fearful of inviting societal disapproval. Although Ali is among the few transgenders who retains family support, it was not always this way. At one point, Ali's sibling accused her of tarnishing the family name and contributing nothing to the family, even though she was their primary breadwinner. "I have been earning for seven years," Ali recalled telling her family. "I did not save anything for myself." While the term "transgender" gained widespread usage in the West during the 1970s, in South Asia the term usually refers to a more specific, and older, group of individuals known as hijras, some of whom prefer to be known by other designations such as khawaja sira. Historically, hijras' blurring of traditional gender boundaries was seen as granting them mystical powers, such as the ability to cast alternately auspicious or pernicious invocations over newborns or at weddings. Hijra communities form around guru-chela relationships, similar to the master-disciple relationships of Sufism, providing a source of protection and support for individuals cast out by their families. While guru-chela communities retain their importance to this day, there is also an increasing number of individuals who have adopted a global transgender identity outside these traditional institutions. Regardless of whether they become chelas, many transgender Pakistanis are also trying to maintain relations with their families. However, increasing familial acceptance has brought its own set of challenges, particularly in the realm of inheritance. In Pakistan, inheritance portions are often determined by gender, with women receiving half the amount of men. Inheritance can generate family conflicts, but for transgender individuals, it was worse: members were required to undergo a medical exam to determine if their share would correspond to that of a male or female. This February, a Senate committee determined that the country’s transgenders could inherit property without a medical board deciding their gender for them. Accordingly, transgender individuals will receive an inheritance based on the gender identity they have transitioned into and chosen for themselves. "Transgenders have the right to live with dignity and avail all fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution," Senator Sehar Kamran tells Al Jazeera. The Senate's decision marks the most recent development in a long history of rulers recasting hijra's position in South Asian society. While hijras have long languished on the economic periphery - surviving by soliciting alms at shrines, birth ceremonies and weddings - during the Mughal period, hijras held venerated positions in the courts guarding harems. The British, however, viewed hijras as a menace to public decency and morality, attempting to criminalise their begging and even classifying the group as a "criminal tribe" in 1871. In the decades after Pakistan declared independence from the British in 1947, successive governments have sought to protect the sexual minority and guarantee their rights. Like neighbouring India, Bangladesh and Nepal, Pakistan recognises hijras as a third gender, thanks to a 2009 Supreme Court decision that awards them classification as a distinct category. In 2011, the group received the right to vote, and a year later, the government awarded them the right to inheritance, promising them equal treatment under the law. Last year, Pakistan also counted transgenders as a separate category in the census. But for the transgender community on the ground, these developments often feel distant. "The main area of concern for transgenders is the accessibility of services," said Qamar Naseem, a programmed coordinator at Blue Veins, a Peshawar-based organisation that works with the transgender community. Systemic violence Transgenders contend with systemic violence and discrimination in accessing health services, affordable housing, transportation and alternate livelihood options, he said. Recent events have also underscored the tenuous footing on which their rights rest: In January, a transgender was gang-raped in Pakistan's northwest by a criminal group. In another gruesome case in 2016, Alisha, a transgender who was gunned down in Pakistan's northwest, died when a hospital tried to decide whether to admit her to the male or female wing. Still, for transgender activists, there is a widespread understanding that legal protections can make a difference. Ali is free to perform classical dances on stage, without familial pressure constricting her choices. "Dance is my best friend. At least I have a platform where I can be myself," she said. She even recently joined other transgender individuals in taking up a mentor, saying that if she is ever spurned by her kin, there would be a backup option: "I will have another family," she said, half-joking. Right now, however, she said there's no issue between her and her family. "There's a tolerance - maybe because I'm taking care of them."
[Scot] Peterson — named school resource officer of the year for Parkland in 2014 — was in another building, dealing with a student issue when the shots sounded. Armed with his sidearm, Peterson ran to the west side of Building 12 and set up in a defensive position, then did nothing for four minutes until the gunfire stopped, the sheriff said. As a working-class black American I am not allowed to believe such childish fictions. This is a matter of survival and a function of life lessons passed down from the past through to the present: America's police and the legal system in general all too often treats nonwhites as enemies to be controlled and oppressed, rather than as citizens to be respected and protected. There is the narrative that police have one the most dangerous jobs in the country. That is simply untrue. Trucking, logging, professional fishing, piloting airplanes or collecting trash as a sanitation worker are all more dangerous occupations than law enforcement. In fact, the No. 1 killer of police is not bullets or knives but traffic accidents. Then there is the myth that there are supposedly only a "few bad apples" and that most police are not violent or abusive. Yet America's police culture and individual officers -- the "good apples" -- nurture, protect, and enable the "bad apples" in their midst. As such, the "good cops" are also culpable. Moreover, there are repeated studies and investigations that reveal the ways America's police culture is authoritarian, violent, racist and sexist, and both encourages and tolerates institutional corruption. The police are supposed to be the "good guys with guns" who stop "the bad guys with guns." That too is a story that does not hold up to critical scrutiny. When police fire their weapons in a confrontation with an armed suspect, they miss approximately 80 percent of the time. Moreover, 27 percent of police report never having fired their weapons during their career. (For which we should likely be grateful.) The aggregate data is damning. Unarmed blacks are twice as likely to be killed by police, compared to unarmed whites. Fully 60 percent of black women killed by police are unarmed. Police are far less likely to kill unarmed whites, compared to other racial groups. Research also shows that police are far more likely to escalate to using physical force and other violence against black people than they are whites.
By Julien GIRAULT Beijing (AFP) -- Jing Huan twirls her conductor's baton nervously in the wings while the brass and string sections of China's Guangzhou Symphony Orchestra tune their instruments. Aged 36, Jing is part of a new breed of foreign-trained conductors, as China hopes to gain recognition in the field after winning global fame for its soloists, including piano and string virtuosos. After long relying on Western conductors, a growing number of symphony orchestras around the country are now entrusting the baton to a fresh generation of Chinese music directors. Jing studied at the University of Cincinnati and served as the conducting assistant of the symphony orchestra there before joining the Guangzhou orchestra in southern China. Last year her orchestra performed on a prestigious Beijing stage as part of a "musical marathon" that saw nine ensembles play one after another to mark the 20th anniversary of the Beijing Music Festival. "In China, in the Central Conservatory of Music, we focus on technique," she told AFP. "So technically, we are very strong... but as a young conductor you don't have many chances to conduct a real orchestra immediately in China, while in America, it's easy to get a lot of experience early on," she said. According to prominent music critic Xu Yao, there are now some 80 symphony orchestras in China -- backed by local governments who see Western music as a matter of prestige -- compared to about 30 just eight years ago. "But the shortage of conductors remains: most orchestras are led by Chinese, but one conductor can sometimes be in charge of three orchestras!" said Xu, pointing to the lack of "small musical groups" that would allow young conductors to gain experience, as is the case in the West. 'Chinese-style Beethoven' China has come a long way however, said Long Yu, 54, artistic director of the Shanghai and Guangzhou symphony orchestras, and founder of the Beijing Music Festival. "I grew up in Shanghai in the midst of the Cultural Revolution," a period of political turmoil from 1966-1976 during which Western music was banned, the maestro told AFP. Long secretly learned the piano from his grandfather, a renowned composer, and in the 1980s became one of the first Chinese musicians to study abroad as the Communist government started to open up to the rest of the world. He trained in Berlin before returning to China in the early 1990s, where conducting remained difficult. "It is a very special job. You have to deliver a message on the interpretation of the music to the musicians themselves, so it's quite difficult," he said. Long bristles when he hears about a "Chinese style" of playing classical music. "There is no such thing as a Chinese-style Beethoven!", he said. Conducting in China still carries its special challenges -- and rewards, said violinist Jian Wang, who also trained in the United States. "It's very interesting and challenging at the same time to play in China (because) part of the audience is hearing the pieces for the first time," she said. In addition, most musicians in Chinese orchestras were trained as soloists. Ten years ago, French conductor Emmanuel Calef came up against the problem when he took the podium with the Guiyang Symphony Orchestra, a private venture in the remote southwestern province of Guizhou. Musicians in their 20s "were technically ready, but not culturally ready, and they had not been trained to participate in a collective endeavour", he told AFP. He also remembers the "cultural shock" he felt when he found that neon signs would light up to indicate to the audience when to applaud. And while rich businessmen who financed the orchestra were ready to rent a prestigious Steinway piano or a precious Amati violin, they were reluctant to buy quality scores, the French conductor said with a smile. 'It takes time' Ten years on, classical music is no longer seen in China as an "import product", although the repertoire is often confined to the "very big" composers such as Beethoven, Bach and Brahms, said Calef. For more modern composers, "some (Chinese) musicians have similar reactions that their Western counterparts had when discovering the scores in the late 19th or early 20th centuries," he said. Long agreed, but said the repertoire is growing gradually as the public becomes more familiar with it. "It is a culture that is still foreign today, and there is still a lot of work to be done." For him, the real difficulty is that few Chinese conductors have won plaudits abroad. Notable exceptions include Chinese pioneer Tang Muhai, who conducted the Berlin Philharmonic during the 1983-1984 season, then continued a successful career in the US, Portugal, Australia and Finland. There are other examples like China's Zhang Xian, who in 2009 became the first female musical director of a symphony orchestra in Italy, in Milan. "There are incredible talents among conductors from China, Japan, Korea and Singapore, but I don't think Asian conductors are totally accepted yet in the West. It takes time," sighed Long.
Fuzi Harun says certain procedures set by the Indonesian authorities need to be complied with before the Umno leader can be brought home. SHAH ALAM: Inspector-General of Police Mohamad Fuzi Harun has assured that the police will try to extradite fugitive Sungai Besar Umno chief Jamal Yunos as soon as possible after his arrest in Indonesia yesterday. He said there were certain procedures set by the Indonesian authorities which must be followed before Jamal could be brought home. “I cannot guarantee when or how many days it will take as this will depend on cooperation and consent from the Indonesian authorities,” he said. “We are in contact with the authorities there and we hope to bring him back soonest, to enable us to take the next course of action,” he said after attending a Hari Raya open house at the Selangor police headquarters here today. Also present were Selangor police chief Mazlan Mansor and deputy police chief Ab Rashid Ab Wahab. Fuzi said a special team had been put on standby to go to Indonesia to bring Jamal back to Malaysia. “We have a team ready… If necessary we will go there. On the detention, I do not have detailed information but I can only confirm that he is doing fine,” Fuzi added. Yesterday, Home Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said Jamal had been detained by the Indonesian police at 6.15pm. Jamal, 48, was reported to have gone missing after he was charged at the Ampang Puteri Specialist Hospital on May 25 at 5.30pm, prompting Bukit Aman to issue a warrant of arrest against him. Among others, he was charged with causing public nuisance for smashing alcoholic beverage bottles with a hammer at the front gate of the Selangor State Secretariat building in Shah Alam on Oct 5 last year. Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story. We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate. We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others. Please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words. FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules. The views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.
The leaders of two anti-establishment parties have each claimed they have the right to govern Italy, after voters in Europe's fourth-largest economy did not return a majority to any single party. The Eurosceptic, populist Five Star Movement was the biggest single party with a third of the vote. But the anti-immigrant League said it had been endorsed to run the country as part of a centre-right alliance. Forming a government could take weeks of negotiation and coalition-building. Former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has resigned as leader of the governing centre-left Democratic Party, which performed poorly, taking less than 20% of the vote. He said the party would not join a coalition with "anti-system forces" and would go into opposition instead. An alliance between the far-right League and ex-Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party is set to win the most seats in the lower house of parliament, but the League has emerged as the senior partner. It won 17.4% of the vote compared with Forza Italia's 14%. Matteo Salvini, the 44-year-old leader of the League, said at a press conference that he intended to speak to other parties to gain a parliamentary majority. Five Star leader Luigi Di Maio, 31, announced that his party was also open to coalition talks with other parties - this despite the party having stated the contrary in the run-up to the vote. The gains for populists represent a political earthquake that will send shockwaves to the EU in Brussels, BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says. A coalition between Five Star and the League would be a "nightmare result" for the EU, our correspondent adds. However, Mr Salvini has ruled out such an alliance. He said he was not interested in a "minestrone" coalition, referring to the Italian soup of mixed vegetables. Results showed that the League conquered broad swathes of Italy's north, while Five Star saw its strongest show of support in the south. The centre-left coalition, dominated by the Democratic Party, was punished in traditional strongholds including Emilia-Romagna, the northern region home to the city of Bologna. Voter turnout was estimated at 73% on Monday morning, according to interior ministry figures. What does the result mean? Though no party will be able to rule alone based on latest results, the surge of support for populist parties has been compared with Brexit and the election of Donald Trump in the US. The right-wing alliance, which also includes the far-right Brothers of Italy, is tipped to get 248-268 seats - below the 316 needed for a majority. But Five Star will emerge as the largest single party in Italy's lower house, with 216-236 seats. The party was founded in 2009 by comedian Beppe Grillo, who denounced cronyism in Italian politics. It has captured new voters in the poorer regions of southern Italy, feeding off anger over institutional corruption, economic hardship and immigration. Italian voters appear to have abandoned Mr Renzi's Democratic Party because of dissatisfaction over these issues, and the centre-left coalition is projected to come a distant third, with an estimated 107-127 seats. Immigration and the economy have been two of the key issues for voters during the election. More than 600,000 migrants have travelled from Libya to reach Italy since 2013, which has upset many Italians. The state of the economy was also at the centre of the debates. In 2016, some 18 million people were at risk of poverty, and unemployment is currently at 11%. Results from the vote for Italy's Senate, the upper house of parliament, also favoured populists and parties of the right. Five Star performed better than anticipated and was forecast to take the most seats - around 102-122 - but miss out on a majority. The right-wing coalition is predicted to get 118-150 seats in the upper house, and the Democratic Party 42-54. Advantage Five Star - but what happens next? By James Reynolds BBC News, Milan We still don't know who the winner will be. But in this opening act, Five Star has gained a certain advantage. Its message clearly resonated with young people searching for jobs, and with voters in the poorer south of the country. The movement made a big point of running alone in this election. By contrast, other major parties teamed up into electoral alliances. But the feature which gave the party its strength - its independence - may now become its weakness. In order to form a government, Five Star must find coalition partners. Its inexperience in working with others may be a disadvantage in the practical business of coalition-building. So, which way will Five Star seek to turn? There is some speculation that the movement may seek a coalition with the League. Both parties have criticised Italy's relationship with the European Union, although neither campaigns to leave the bloc. A potential alliance between the two would be viewed with some degree of worry in Brussels. Berlusconi's party outshone by allies The vote comes as a blow to Silvio Berlusconi, 81, whose party led the right-wing coalition. But now Matteo Salvini has laid claim to that role. He has promised to deport hundreds of thousands of migrants and spoken of the "danger" of Islam. "My first words: THANK YOU," tweeted Mr Salvini as projections rolled in. In any case Mr Berlusconi cannot hold public office himself until next year because of a tax fraud conviction. Who is Matteo Salvini? The leader of the League is a proud Eurosceptic, who has praised Brexit and voiced opposition to the euro in the past. "It's a fantastic victory which fills us with pride," said Mr Salvini on Monday as results came in. He claimed Italian voters had "made a step forward to be free from the cages and ties that are bringing back hunger and insecurity in Europe". In the same speech, Mr Salvini repeated his stance that the euro is bad for Italy. "It's a wrong currency and a wrong choice," he said. How Italy's press reacted - BBC Monitoring La Stampa (centre-left): Di Maio wins, Italy is ungovernable La Repubblica (centre-left): Italy belongs to the Five Star Movement and the League; the Democratic Party is knocked out, Renzi on his way out Libero (centre-right): A chaotic government of amateurs - anger and confusion at the polls: From bad to worse Il fatto quotidiano (populist): The Five Star Movement soars, Renzi crashes, Salvini wipes out Berlusconi: Everything changes More on Italy's vote: Italian town at centre of bitter race debate Will fake claims affect poll? Silvio Berlusconi: Italy's perpetual powerbroker
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday did not deny that the Russian government may have “compromising material” about President Donald Trump and his family. Asked by The Associated Press’ Jonathan Lemire during an extraordinary press conference with Trump in Helsinki, Finland, Putin acknowledged the “rumors” before evading the question. “It’s difficult to imagine nonsense of a bigger scale than this,” Putin said, according to a translator. “Well, please, just disregard this issues [sic], and don’t think about this anymore again.” Among the rumors is the infamous “pee tape,” a purported recording that supposedly contains footage of Trump and urinating prostitutes at a Moscow hotel in 2013, when the then-reality television star and “Miss Universe” owner was there for that year’s pageant hosted in Moscow. Putin on Monday claimed that he “didn’t even know” Trump was in Moscow at that time. “I treat President Trump with utmost respect, but back then, when he was a private individual, nobody informed me he was in Moscow,” Putin said. But it has been widely reported that Trump and Putin were in fact in contact. Putin reportedly could not meet with Trump but sent him a gift, according to the Washington Post. The Post also reported that Trump wrote Putin a personal letter inviting him to the pageant. Trump himself claimed in 2014 that Putin contacted him at the time. “When I went to Russia for the Miss Universe Pageant, Putin contacted me. And was so nice,” he said in a Fox News interview. During his 2013 visit, he told MSNBC that Putin ”[is] very interested in what we’re doing here today.” “I’m sure he’s going to be seeing it in some form, but I do have a relationship with him,” Trump said. And in June 2013, Trump famously tweeted about potentially meeting Putin and whether he would “become my new best friend.” This has been updated.
In addition to establishing Alia Bhatt’s credentials as a bona fide star, the success of Raazi has also ushered in a new phase in the so-called woman-centric film in Hindi cinema. For a few years now, the mahila pradhaan theme or the one that Bollywood insiders refer to as the kind where the “heroine” is the “hero”, has been undergoing a transformation. While the obvious change was the manner in which a saleable male name wasn’t required anymore to market a film such as Kahaani (2012), Queen (2013), Mary Kom (2014) or Neerja (2017), the bigger, and in some way a silent, change was the way the trade ceased to see these from the “women-centric” perspective. It is this transition from being niche even within the multiplex product category to a sound business proposition that would finally sound the death knell for the women-centric genre. On a budget of approximately rupees eight crore, Kahaani’s net worldwide collection was nearly Rs 73 crore. Better characters Besides increasing the possibility of the women getting better-etched characters and not being subjected to supporting roles once they cross a certain age, films such as Raazi, Neerja and Tumhari Sulu have also made a much greater contribution to the film business in India. The popular Hindi film trade is largely driven by the notion that it’s the stars that attract the audiences and in order to make such “women-centric” films feasible, distributors would urge the producer to include a male star; hence, the presence of Shah Rukh Khan a la deus ex machina in Shakti: The Power (2002). In some cases, such a presence could also impact the budget, but even if the star were working for less, the narrative would be tinkered around to include him. As a result, the films with a female protagonist were relegated to the “hatke” category and the budgets suffered. Despite all this, when films like Kahaani became successful at the box office, the sheer economics behind a film like that made the trade look at them in a new light. On a budget of approximately rupees eight crore, Kahaani’s net worldwide collection was nearly Rs 73 crore besides its satellite rights, which made about Rs 15 crore, or in other words, the profit on investment was a whopping 900 per cent! A saleable male name wasn’t required to market a film like Mary Kom (2014). Business model Of course, Kahaani could be called an exception, but when compared to the regular big-budget films such as Singh Is Bling (2015), which made Rs 42 crore just on its opening weekend, the former is a better business model. Why? Well, Singh is Bling grossed nearly Rs 98 crore in India and is counted amongst the best openings that the film’s lead Akshay Kumar has ever experienced, but with a reported budget of Rs 91 crore, it can be called anything but a successful venture. A few decades ago, leading ladies in the Hindi films would have to wait for years to get what could be termed as their “Mother India” moment — a film where they wouldn’t have to be props. Additionally, the bigger the success a heroine was at the box office, the rarer it became for her to land a half-decent role in a standard film. Look at the way after Nagina (1986) and Mr India (1987) Sridevi found it extremely difficult to get to play characters that weren’t cardboard-cut-outs. For every single Chandni (1989) or Chaalbaaz (1989) or Lamhe (1991), she had to go through many forgettable films like Aulad (1987), Watan Ke Rakhwale (1987), Sherni (1988), Sone Pe Suhaaga (1988) and Pathar Ke Insan (1990). Even typical films where the role would offer some meat, for instance, say a Gair Kanooni (1989) or Laadla (1994) became fewer as the years passed. Raazi is not being treated as a non-mainstream movie. Raazi joins the recent slew of films where women got to play organic characters in films that weren’t treated as non-mainstream or art-house fare. The major part of the credit for this change goes to the audience. The viewer had rarely discriminated as much between male-centric or female-centric films as the trade would have made you believe, and now with the alternate streams of exhibiting such as online streaming, not only does the viewer have more choice but for the trade, too, the smaller films become much viable. Who knows? The “women-centric” films might, finally, also inspire the leading men to take stock and larger-than-life filmmakers to understand that budgets don’t make films better.
Audio files of Chinese texts read by well-known broadcasters are now available for students and teachers. Fang Aiqing reports. Some 150 million domestic elementary and middle school students and more than 9 million of their teachers are now going to have their Chinese texts read by well-known broadcasters as demonstrations for reading aloud. The first 100 audio files, covering famous Chinese poems and prose from both ancient and modern times, as well as translations of classic Western stories, were released on May 19. Teachers, students and parents can access the audio files online and via their smartphones for free, and more pieces will soon be made available. More than 70 young, middle-aged and elderly broadcasters from China Central Television, China National Radio and China Radio International participated in the project.
The United States will deploy a record number of Marines to train in Australia, the Australian defence minister said on Friday, as Washington seeks to counter what it describes as Chinese aggression in the region. Payne said 1,587 U.S. Marines will spend six months training in Australia's remote north, an increase of nearly 27 percent on its 2017 rotation for the program known as the Force Posture Initiatives. "The U.S. military plays a vital role in underwriting security and stability across the Indo-Pacific, and the Force Posture Initiatives will be an essential component in preserving stability and security over the coming decades," Defence Minister Marise Payne said in a statement. The deployment, first introduced in 2011 as part of a U.S. "pivot" to Asia, has emerged as a key indicator of Washington's commitment to the region under U.S. President Donald Trump and his willingness to counter Chinese influence in a region where tensions have spiked amid disputes over the South China Sea. China claims most of the South China Sea, an important trade route that is also believed to contain large quantities of oil and natural gas, and has been building artificial islands on reefs, some with ports and air strips. In a move likely to irk Beijing, the U.S. Marines will train with personnel from Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, several nations that also have claims in the South China Sea. "China will monitor whatever the U.S. does and it would prefer that the United States not work with the Asian countries included in these exercises," said Euan Graham, director of the international security program at Australian think tank the Lowy Institute. "Beijing would like to deal one-on-one with Southeast Asia nations that have counter claims," he said. The military deployment also threatens to further weaken Australia-Chinese relations. Australia, a staunch U.S. ally with no claim to the South China Sea, has long maintained its neutrality in the dispute to protect its economic relationship with China. But bilateral relations have soured in recent months after Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said China was improperly interfering in Canberra's affairs, an accusation that triggered a rare protest from Beijing.
For how massive Reddit is in terms of user base, it’s really gotten by for a long time having a product that advanced about as quickly as Drudge Report. That’s been changing lately, as the company has looked to mature their platform with user-centric features that make surfing content easier and keep everything a bit more connected. The company didn’t raise $200 million from top investors just because they thought the company could deliver memes more beautifully. The company has — in fact — barely touched advertising, and few entities know more about its users interests than Reddit . Next week, the company will launch native promoted post ads on its Reddit iOS app with an Android version following soon after. The company informed advertisers of this in an email, MarketingLand reports. The apps have had rocky starts but have proven to offer a vastly improved user experience over what came before it. There are still some blind spots here and there, but for how slowly the company moved previously, the apps are fairly impressive. Few user bases are more vocal or hesitant to change than the hundreds of million of monthly active Redditors, and advertisers are likely similarly hesitant to get involved with a platform that has churned out controversy at a steady pace over the past few years. Nevertheless, Reddit has already set its course toward building out a better ads product and native promoted ads represent a big step toward that.
From Ngozi Onyeakusi, Lagos Regency Alliance Insurance Plc, as a way of appreciating its shareholders, has declared a total dividend payout of N200.06m, for the financial year ended 31st December, 2017, thus representing three kobo per 50 kobo share. The said dividend according to the firm is payable to shareholders whose names appeared in the company’s register. The firm has posted gross premium income growth to the tune by 8.61 per cent to N3.36bn in the 2017 from N3.1bn in recorded in 2016. Addressing shareholders at firms 24th annual general meeting in Lagos, the Chairman of the company, Baba Gana Kingibe, announced plans by the company to review its expansion programme to make it compete effectively in the insurance industry. As a way of appreciating its shareholders, he said the board recommended a total dividend payout of N200.06m, representing three kobo per 50 kobo share for eligible shareholders. He also said that the company’s net claims rose by 117.46 per cent; 18 per cent in underwriting expenses and 14.6 per cent in management expenses when compared with the previous year’s figures. Kingibe said, “Our salient result of the economic situation has been an increase in both the number of claims and value therein throughout the insurance industry. In 2017, there were huge claims payout in oil/gas, accident and motor classes.” The chairman disclosed that there was an increase of 76.15 per cent in the investment income of the company, which was a reflection of the high rates and government yield rates offered during the year. He noted that the resultant effect showed a decline of 58.25 per cent in profit after tax from N470.59m in 2016 to N196.48m in 2017. “Though the drop is significant, your company’s fundamentals are still strong,” he said. Even as he noted that the total asset base of the company grew by 5.7 per cent from N6.8bn in 2016 to N7.24bn in 2017, Kingibe said that total asset for the group stood at N9.3bn. With the economy set for more growth this year, the chairman said that the company was reviewing its expansion programme to make it compete effectively in the insurance space. He said that the company also intended to increase its market penetration through the deployment of an e-commerce platform. “We will always be guided by our corporate ideals and values of professionalism, integrity, commitment and efficiency as we create wealth for all our stakeholders while mitigating all associated risks that may arise,” he said.
Coinbase has some serious competition. Today, Robinhood starts rolling out its no-commission cryptocurrency trading feature in California, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana and New Hampshire. Users there can buy and sell Bitcoin and Ethereum with no extra fees, and everyone can track those and 14 other coins in its sleek app. That’s compared to paying 1.5 to 4 percent fees in the U.S. on Coinbase. Users can sign up on the Robinhood Crypto site to waitlist for access. Robinhood has a chance to usurp Coinbase as the de facto crypto trading site app by vastly undercutting its fees. When people are buying thousands of dollars of cryptocurrencies at a time, Coinbase’s 1.5 to 4 percent fees in the U.S. can quickly add up. But Robinhood sees giving away the service for free as a powerful play to gain users for its existing service that lets people trade stocks, ETFs and options without additional charges. Its stylish, retro-future Tron interface is also a super easy way to check on pricing and news about 16 coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ripple, Ethereum Classic, Zcash, Monero, Dash, Stellar, Qtum, Bitcoin Gold, OmiseGo, NEO, Lisk and Dogecoin. Tracking is now available for everyone, with trading coming to waitlisted users and more states soon. Robinhood Crypto first announced the feature last month, with one million people signing up in just the first four days. That interest has driven Robinhood’s total registered user count to more than 4 million, up from 3 million in November. Those users have transacted more than $100 billion to date, saving $1 billion in commission fees. On most stock trading services like E*Trade and Scottrade, customers pay around $7 per trade to cover these companies’ marketing, physical branches and sales reps. Founded in 2013, Robinhood ditches those fees by running a lean operation centered around engineers and its app. It makes money on the interest of cash its customers keep with it, or by selling monthly Robinhood Gold subscriptions that let users borrow money to trade with. That business has allowed the startup to raise $176 million, most recently at a $1.3 billion valuation. And with its free crypto trading, it may have found a way to luring in a fresh class of amateur investors. Keeping security locked tight will be critical, especially given disastrous breaches at other crypto companies. But as crypto draws a new generation into the world of finance, Robinhood wants to help them play the market, day or night. For more, read our full story on the debut of R obinhood Crypto. [Disclosure: The author of this story owns small positions in Bitcoin and Ethereum]
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attend a joint news conference following their meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow on May 26, 2018. (AFP PHOTO) MOSCOW, June 23 (Xinhua) -- Russia and Japan on Saturday inked a memorandum of understanding (MOU) in Russia's Far Eastern Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) to expand cooperation between the two countries, a parliamentary official said. "Today in Yakutia, we worked with Japanese lawmakers on the topics of inter-regional cooperation," Konstantin Kosachev, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Federation Council, the upper house of Russia's parliament, said on Facebook. The Japanese delegation was led by Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Hiroshige Seko, Kosachev said, giving no more details about the MOU. According to a TASS report, Kosachev said he hopes that the discussions in Yakutia will lead to practical interaction, including at the inter-regional level in the future. Seko said that Japanese-Russian relations are developing steadily and the Far East is one of the important areas of bilateral cooperation. Both Russia and Japan claim a group of islands off Japan's northern prefecture of Hokkaido, called the Northern Territories in Japan and the Southern Kurils in Russia. The territorial spat has prevented the two countries from signing a post-World War II peace treaty and hindered their diplomatic and trade relations. Russia has beefed up its military presence in the country's Far East, including on the disputed islands. Russian President Vladimir Putin and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attend a joint news conference following their meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow on May 26, 2018. (AFP PHOTO) MOSCOW, June 23 (Xinhua) -- Russia and Japan on Saturday inked a memorandum of understanding (MOU) in Russia's Far Eastern Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) to expand cooperation between the two countries, a parliamentary official said. "Today in Yakutia, we worked with Japanese lawmakers on the topics of inter-regional cooperation," Konstantin Kosachev, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Federation Council, the upper house of Russia's parliament, said on Facebook. The Japanese delegation was led by Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Hiroshige Seko, Kosachev said, giving no more details about the MOU. According to a TASS report, Kosachev said he hopes that the discussions in Yakutia will lead to practical interaction, including at the inter-regional level in the future. Seko said that Japanese-Russian relations are developing steadily and the Far East is one of the important areas of bilateral cooperation. Both Russia and Japan claim a group of islands off Japan's northern prefecture of Hokkaido, called the Northern Territories in Japan and the Southern Kurils in Russia. The territorial spat has prevented the two countries from signing a post-World War II peace treaty and hindered their diplomatic and trade relations. Russia has beefed up its military presence in the country's Far East, including on the disputed islands.
Rwanda has officially requested Cameroon’s support in her quest to get the post of Secretary General of the Francophonie. To that effect, the Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and East African Community, Louise Mushikiwabo was a special envoy of President Paul Kagame as she handed a letter to Prime Minister Philemon Yang to be transmitted to the Head of State. “I came here as an envoy of President Paul Kagame with a message to be conveyed to his brother President Paul Biya. The message has to do with Rwanda’s bid for the International Organisation of the Francophonie. We are bidding for the Secretary General’s position,” she told the press after the audience granted her. She also added that their discussions centred on relations between both countries which she described as fantastic. Before meeting with the Prime Minister, Louise Mushikiwabo had earlier met with the Minister of External Relations, Lejeune Mbella Mbella on the sidelines of the of the first meeting of Central African Convention for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons, their Ammunition and all Parts and Components that can be used for their Manufacture, Repair and Assembly.
At first glance, the Samsung Galaxy S9 might not look like much of an upgrade – it’s very, very similar in design to the Galaxy S8 from last year. However, that was an excellent handset, and Samsung has decided to stick with the design this year and put its efforts into making the phone sturdier, faster and more useful day to day. It’s easily one of the most powerful phones on the market, has novel features in the shape of AR Emoji that are created in your own image, and a camera that’s utterly unlike anything we’ve seen on the market before. Samsung has also been hard at work fixing the biometric issues that plagued the Galaxy S8, making some subtle tweaks that aren’t apparent until you’ve used the phone for a while and find that it’s just so much easier to unlock securely. But these plus points are all set against a backdrop of a very high price; we’re not talking iPhone X levels here, but it’s still one of the more expensive options you can buy. The larger Samsung Galaxy S9 Plus with a 6.2-inch screen is even pricier. So if you’re looking to replace a 2016 phone do all the new features really offer enough to make the Galaxy S9 a worthwhile upgrade, or is the cheaper Galaxy S8 still the best phone in the world? Price and release date The Samsung Galaxy S9 release date has been set for March 16, with pre-orders having been open for a while around the world. We know the Galaxy S9 will cost £739, $719.99, or AU$1,199 SIM-free directly from Samsung, but exact pricing for other markets is currently unclear. In the UK, that's a huge price jump over last year's handset, which cost £689 at launch, and it's the same price our sources reported before it was made official. In terms of a UK cost on contract you can expect to pay between £35 and £50 per month for a decent slug of data, although with many contracts you’ll need to pay a little upfront too. In the US, we're seeing around $30 a month for the contract, and between $720-$800 for the phone itself. There aren’t any storage variants of this phone though, with only the 64GB option on sale. It took us a little while to come around to the idea of AR Emoji... and then not too long to get bored by them again. Let's be honest here: these are a clear response to Apple's Animoji, which gained a lot of attention when the iPhone X launched, and which make use of the TrueDepth camera on the front of the iPhone X. Samsung's offering feels like a watered-down version of this, albeit one with a bit more personality. To create your own little avatar you simply smile into the front-facing camera, and the Galaxy S9 creates your own digital version of you. Once it’s created, you can change your avi’s hair and skin color and choose an outfit – it's a shame there aren't more customisation options here, as the outfits are a bit limited and the hair colors aren’t particularly nuanced. This may seem like a tiny thing, but if you can't make your AR Emoji look like you then you – and your friends – are going to struggle to engage with it. In our testing we found that we needed to create our avatar a few times, as there were occasional glitches like a weird face shape or the wrong-colored eyes. We also had to get used to the fact that it doesn't look like us all the time, although in some of the instantly-generated GIFs you can use for social media we suddenly saw that our AR Emoji mimicked some of our features well from different angles. Those GIFs are probably the best thing about this new feature – and they get tiresome relatively quickly. You send a few to friends on compatible apps (the AR Emoji GIFs are baked into the Galaxy S9's keyboard, but you can't add them in Twitter or Gmail, only in apps like WhatsApp at the moment), but the novelty wears off pretty quickly. The other thing you can do is record a video of yourself speaking as the AR Emoji... and this is where things start to unravel. The Galaxy S9 picks up most of your features, but also gives your avatar a little flickering mouth or eye at times when the camera loses you. It shows that, to make this feature work properly, brands need a more powerful camera, rather than just relying on software and the front-facing option. AR Emoji are fun for a little while, but on their own they're certainly not a reason to buy this phone. Bixby is back... and better We were thoroughly disappointed by Bixby on the Galaxy S8 last year, as it promised to be the ultimate digital assistant and, well, it wasn't. It simply couldn't do enough – it wasn’t able to work out what you wanted contextually, and it wasn’t able to start or control enough apps. We could forgive the gestation period for this feature if it wasn't for the fact that Google Assistant is already on the phone, and incredibly capable. However, Samsung has upgraded Bixby on the Galaxy S9, and kept the Bixby button on the side of the device to allow you to interact with your assistant. You use the button as on a walkie-talkie, pressing to talk to Bixby and releasing when you’ve delivered your command… but it's a bit slow to catch up. Bixby can be too literal – wanting to set a timer preset rather than just starting a countdown for example – and while you can ask it to take a picture and send it to a friend the whole process takes around 30 seconds – and that's assuming Bixby can find the friend to start with – in which time you’d rather just do it manually. The Galaxy S9 also keeps telling us that we can dictate using Bixby, but this was never 100% accurate – it was pretty darn good, considering that you're essentially talking to a baby robot, but we needed to edit our words before sending. Bixby Vision has come a long way though – and the fact that it's turned off by default is just beautiful. No longer do the little green fireflies automatically dance across your viewfinder when you're trying to take a picture of your car, dog, mother or laundry basket (to show her you've done it all) as the phone tries to work out what's being looked at. However, when you do turn on Vision the features are pretty useful. Bixby is much, much better at being able to work out what it's seeing than what it’s hearing, and can give accurate results on the web for things like comics, lamps and nature scenes. The translation tool is also very strong – it comes up with some weird answers here and there, but on the whole it's very easy to work out what you're looking at. Samsung is making a big deal about this feature, although in reality it's a bit niche... you'll need to be in a foreign country, with data, and completely unable to work out what you're looking at. So while it's good that Bixby has been upgraded, to at least bring some sense to having that button on the side of the phone, it's still a novelty rather than a must-have feature. Mapping the button to Google Assistant is still a far better way to get the most from your phone with your voice (although you’ll need to download a third party app to do it), despite it being more limited in scope... at least it manages the things it can do very well. Anyone who read our Galaxy S8 review last year would have realised quite quickly that the biometric unlocking features of that phone almost made it unusable. The fingerprint scanner was too hard to reach, the iris scanner too unreliable and the facial recognition just too poor. Samsung needed to do something, and it has, with all three features now working seamlessly and interchangeably. Intelligent Scan marries the iris scanner and facial recognition to make unlocking your phone with your face a far, far simpler task, and as mentioned the fingerprint scanner is much easier to hit. The speed of the Intelligent Snan feature is so much better than last year... where the iris scanner and facial recognition on the S8 were between 30% and 50% accurate, the two together on the Galaxy S9 yield success almost every time. In low-light the iris scanner is still a bit slow to react, and not always pleased to let you in (in this case, Apple's Face ID absolutely destroys it for accuracy and ease of use), but it's so simple to just flick your finger to the scanner on the back that we never had an issue. There are a couple of flaws with the biometric system. First, the 2D scan of the face the S9 makes to recognize you isn't as secure as other methods, like the fingerprint scanner or Apple's Face ID. That's not a huge problem for us – the fingerprint scanner is a better way of paying for things anyway, and really biometric unlocking is more about convenience than it is security. We weren't able to dupe the Samsung Galaxy S9 with a picture of our face, so if you lose your phone you can feel secure in the knowledge that the thief isn't getting in, which is what most of us really want. Second, and more frustratingly, you can’t really unlock the phone when it’s placed on a table – the field of vision for the scanner is limited, so unless you weirdly shove your head over it you won’t get in, whereas Apple’s Face ID offers a much wider viewing angle. The other key feature that Samsung is talking up on the Galaxy S9 is the improved speaker setup. If you're tired of hearing sound shoot out the bottom of your phone, you'll appreciate that the top earpiece is now able to fire out sound towards your face. These speakers have also been tuned to support Dolby Atmos sound, giving you a sense of space from the audio coming out from your phone. Given how thin this phone is, the overall volume and quality of sound coming out of it is impressive. If anything the volume can go a little too high, and we found ourselves turning it down on occasion, despite only watching videos on social media. The quality isn't the best on the market – there's definitely a little more punch and clarity from the iPhone X, where the Galaxy S9 is a little bit muddier – but the idea here isn't to replace a Bluetooth speaker, but rather provide a decent experience when listening to music or podcasts without earphones.
A new country-wise ranking of neonatal mortality rates — the number of babies dying in their first month for every thousand live births — gives India cause for both hope and shame. Shame, because the report, produced by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef), ranks India behind poorer countries such as Bangladesh, Nepal and Rwanda. Hope, because the ranking shows that financial resources are not the biggest constraint in improving this health indicator; political will is. According to the report, titled “Every Child Alive”, while average newborn mortality in low-income nations is nine times that of high-income ones, several countries buck the trend, showing a way forward for India. For example, Sri Lanka and Ukraine, which like India are categorised as lower-middle income economies, had a neonatal mortality of around 5/1000 in 2016. In comparison, the U.S., a high-income economy, did only slightly better with a rate of 3.7/1000. Meanwhile, Rwanda, which falls in the lowest income group of less than $1,005 per capita, has brought down its mortality rates from 41/1000 in the 1990s to 16.5 through programmes targeted at poor and vulnerable mothers. Money matters, but intent matters more. India saw the 31st highest newborn-mortality rate, at 25.4 deaths per 1000 in 2016, while Pakistan had the highest. Coming in after 30 countries is no comfort, however, because a small mortality rate can translate to numerous deaths when the birth-rate is high. This means India lost 640,000 babies in 2016, more than any other country. How can we chip away at this staggering number? The report points out that the most powerful solutions are not necessarily the most expensive. The 10 critical products that hospitals must stock to save newborns include a piece of cloth to keep a baby warm and close to the mother to encourage breastfeeding. The list also includes antibiotics and disinfectants, the use of which can stave off killers like sepsis and meningitis. But other solutions will need greater investment. The biggest cause of death is premature birth, while the second is complications like asphyxia during delivery. Preventing these would mean paying attention to the mother’s health during pregnancy and ensuring she delivers in a hospital attended by trained doctors or midwives. India has programmes such as the Janani Suraksha Yojana for this, but must expand its reach in laggard States like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Then there are factors outside the healthcare system, like female literacy rates, that make a big difference to healthcare-seeking behaviour. But changes in education levels will come slowly. Despite these challenges, progress is within reach. States like Kerala and Tamil Nadu show that by focussing on these factors, newborn deaths can be brought to fewer than 15 per 1000 in Indian settings. It’s time for the rest of India to follow suit.
Secret files obtained by BuzzFeed News reveal that from 2011 to 2015 at least 319 New York Police Department employees who committed offenses serious enough to merit firing were allowed to keep their jobs. Many of the officers lied, cheated, stole, or assaulted New York City residents. At least fifty employees lied on official reports, under oath, or during an internal affairs investigation. Thirty-eight were found guilty by a police tribunal of excessive force, getting into a fight, or firing their gun unnecessarily. Fifty-seven were guilty of driving under the influence. Seventy-one were guilty of ticket-fixing. One officer, Jarrett Dill, threatened to kill someone. Another, Roberson Tunis, sexually harassed and inappropriately touched a fellow officer. Some were guilty of lesser offenses, like mouthing off to a supervisor. At least two dozen of these employees worked in schools. Andrew Bailey was found guilty of touching a female student on the thigh and kissing her on the cheek while she was sitting in his car. In a school parking lot, while he was supposed to be on duty, Lester Robinson kissed a woman, removed his shirt, and began to remove his pants. And Juan Garcia, while off duty, illegally sold prescription medication to an undercover officer. In every instance, the police commissioner, who has final authority in disciplinary decisions, assigned these officers to “dismissal probation,” a penalty with few practical consequences. The officer continues to do their job at their usual salary. They may get less overtime and won’t be promoted during that period, which usually lasts a year. When the year is over, so is the probation. Today many continue to patrol the streets, arrest people, put them in jail, and testify in criminal prosecutions. But the people they arrest have little way to find out about the officer's record. So they are forced to make life-changing decisions — such as whether to fight their charges in court or take a guilty plea — without knowing, for example, if the officer who arrested them is a convicted liar, information that a jury might find directly relevant. BuzzFeed News’ reporting is based on hundreds of pages of internal police files that, like all disciplinary records, the department keeps secret, citing a controversial state law on “personnel records.” The files were provided by a source who requested anonymity. They were subsequently verified through more than 100 calls to NYPD employees, visits to officers’ homes, interviews with prosecutors and defense lawyers, and a review of thousands of pages of court records. Over the coming months, BuzzFeed News plans to publish a database with information about the NYPD officers and civilian employees who have received dismissal probation. The Probation Files do not include all officers who received dismissal probation during the years in question. According to the NYPD, of the more than 50,000 people who work for the department, at least 777 officers and an untold number of other employees received the penalty during the five years in question. During the same period, 463 officers were forced to leave or resigned while a disciplinary charge was pending. But the Probation Files are by far the most thorough accounting of this practice to date. They pull back the curtain on one of the NYPD's most fiercely guarded secrets, providing the most extensive record available of which officers, despite committing serious misconduct, continue to wield tremendous power over New Yorkers’ lives. New York is one of only three states, along with Delaware and California, that has a law specifically shielding police misconduct records from the public, according to a study conducted by WNYC in 2015. In recent years, the NYPD has doubled down on its stringent legal interpretation of those laws, even as departments around the country face growing public pressure to be more transparent about police misconduct. In addition to letting some officers off the hook, sources told BuzzFeed News that dismissal probation is also used to punish other officers arbitrarily, for reporting misconduct or just for getting on their supervisors’ bad sides. "If 10 cops did the same exact thing that was bad, the outcome is different every time. If you’ve complained, forget about it,” said Diane Davis, a former internal affairs investigator who later sued the department for racial discrimination. Bill Bratton and Ray Kelly, the NYPD commissioners who ran the department during the years covered by the Probation Files, both declined to speak to BuzzFeed News. (The current commissioner, James O'Neill, took over in 2016.) BuzzFeed News attempted to reach every NYPD employee named in this story, with phone calls and letters to their homes. Some employees could no longer be located, so we also sent a list of names to both their unions and the NYPD, with the request that those organizations notify the officers of the opportunity to comment. Most officers did not respond. Speaking for the NYPD, Kevin Richardson, the deputy commissioner of the Department Advocate’s Office, which determines which officers to charge and prosecute at the NYPD’s internal disciplinary trials, said the law prevented him from commenting on specific officers’ cases. But in general, he said, dismissal probation serves a valuable purpose. “The department is not interested in terminating officers that don't need to be terminated. We're interested in keeping employees and making our employees obey the rules and do the right thing,” he told BuzzFeed News. “But where there are failings that we realize this person should be separated from the department, this police commissioner and the prior police commissioner have shown a willingness to do that.” Richardson added that, since he joined the department in 2014, he has worked to make the process fairer and reassessed the penalties given to officers guilty of misconduct. The department declined to offer any examples of penalties that have changed, or any data that would support his claims. Asked about the misconduct of his members, Gregory Floyd, the president of the union representing school safety agents, said “that's something that we don't condone.” Al O’Leary, a spokesperson for the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, the largest police union representing NYPD officers, had a different message: “We’re not going to talk to you about anything negative as far as any of our officers.” Former NYPD detective sergeant Joseph Giacalone, who spent two years of his two-decade-plus career in internal affairs, said, “Dismissal probation is supposed to be used for somebody who screwed up something big but it wasn’t intentional — they made an honest mistake.” But any officer who is caught committing an egregious offense, such as lying or stealing department property, should be fired, Giacalone said. “They have broken the trust of the oath that you took.” “I really don’t want to talk about it.” During his first six years on the force, officer Raymond Marrero was accused of viciously beating one person, falsely arresting another, assaulting a third, and fabricating evidence against a fourth. In February 2008, Marrero, an officer in the 52nd Precinct in the Bronx with a stocky build and shaved head, arrested a woman who videotaped him allegedly roughing up her boyfriend. Officers seized her phone, which was never returned. She was charged with obstructing government administration, disorderly conduct, and harassment, but acquitted on all counts. She sued; the city paid her $25,000 without admitting any wrongdoing. The disciplinary documents BuzzFeed News obtained include no record that Marrero faced any punishment. A few months later, in April, Marrero got into an altercation with a man while issuing him a parking ticket in front of a Toyota dealership in the Bronx. A judge found Marrero’s explanation of why he arrested the man, who later claimed he was thrown to the ground and punched repeatedly in the head, to be “incredible.” All charges against the man were dropped and the city settled his lawsuit for $500,000 without admitting wrongdoing. The disciplinary documents BuzzFeed News obtained include no record that Marrero faced any punishment. Then, in early 2009, a former police department volunteer named Louis Deluca confronted a man who, Deluca found out, had groped his brother’s 17-year-old girlfriend. The man took off with his friends, just as Marrero was pulling up. “I was telling him, 'There's some guys that groped a family member of mine,’” Deluca said. “‘They're right around the corner.’” Marrero and his partner told Deluca to shut up, Deluca said. Incredulous, Deluca called Marrero a cunt. The officers pushed him to the ground and arrested him, according to a lawsuit Deluca later filed. Back at the precinct, as Deluca was being taken out of the car, Marrero struck him with his police baton, opening up a gash on the top of his head. Another officer said there was so much blood, they had to clean it up with a mop. It took 12 staples at the hospital to close the wound. In a deposition, Deluca said Marrero told him “You can’t disrespect us in the street like that.” Deluca received a $398,000 settlement, of which Marrero was ordered to pay $4,000. A year after Deluca’s arrest, Marrero and his partner held a handcuffed prisoner down while another officer stomped on the person’s head. During an internal affairs investigation, Marrero falsely denied that any officer used physical force. All told, by 2014, the city had paid about $900,000 to settle accusations against officer Marrero. Publicly, neither he nor the city admitted any wrongdoing. But in secret, after an investigation into Deluca’s arrest and the stomping incident a year later, Marrero pleaded guilty to multiple department charges, including striking an individual with “no legitimate police purpose,” “making unnecessary physical contact,” and “providing inaccurate, incomplete misleading answers” to department investigators, according to the files BuzzFeed News obtained. Yet the NYPD commissioner at the time, Ray Kelly, decided that wasn’t a reason to fire him. Instead he was put on dismissal probation and he forfeited 45 vacation days. Marrero remains on the force today, earning almost $120,000 last year. He continues to patrol the streets, making dozens of arrests since he was found guilty by the department. BuzzFeed News asked Marrero about his disciplinary history. Speaking by phone, he said that he appreciated the effort to reach out, but added, “I really don’t want to talk about it.” The Commission to Combat Police Corruption, an organization set up in 1995 to serve as an outside check on the department’s disciplinary process, took a look at Marrero’s case as part of its review of all disciplinary cases that year. (The commission’s reports are anonymized, so it did not name Marrero explicitly. BuzzFeed News was able to identify him by matching details of a January 2009 arrest with the Probation Files and court documents from Deluca’s civil lawsuit.) The commission determined that Marrero’s actions suggested he “lacked the temperament necessary to be a police officer.” Instead of being placed on probation, it said, he should have been fired. But the commission has no authority to reverse the NYPD’s decisions. Informed by BuzzFeed News that the officer who beat him with a baton was still on the force, Deluca, who no longer volunteers for the department, was shocked. “You’ve got to be kidding me,” he said. “I was 1,000% sure he was going to lose his job.” Deluca shook his head and added, “I can’t imagine since that time how many more times he's done this to people.” The law that hides New York police officers’ misconduct from public view is one of the strictest in the nation. When Civil Rights Law Section 50-a was first crafted, state legislators thought they had struck a reasonable balance between the need for criminal defense lawyers and prosecutors to have access to serious misconduct records and the need to protect officers’ privacy. It hasn’t worked that way. While advocating for the proposed law more than 40 years ago, John Maye, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, which at that time represented 3,000 transit officers, complained that “unverified and unsubstantiated” allegations as well as “confidential information and privileged medical records” about officers were being wrongly disclosed to the public and misused by defendants’ attorneys. So in 1976, state legislators passed a bill that put the decision to release or withhold disciplinary records in the hands of judges. The idea was that judges would exercise independent discretion, withholding records that served no public interest, and releasing records that people charged with crimes needed in order to be able to defend themselves. The state law says that “personnel records of police officers ... shall be considered confidential.” Over time, the NYPD, other departments, and police unions have fought to expand what qualifies as a personnel record. For the most part, courts have agreed with their arguments. The Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, which today represents most New York City officers, recently sued the department for making public a video clip of a fatal encounter between officers and an armed man in the Bronx. Body camera footage, the union argued, is part of officers’ personnel records, and therefore confidential. Their lawsuit against the department is ongoing. BuzzFeed News is one of several media organizations that filed a brief to support public access to the footage. For decades the outcomes of disciplinary trials were made available — if someone knew where to look for them — on a clipboard on the 13th floor of police headquarters. In May 2016, the Legal Aid Society, the largest public defender organization in the country, filed a public records request for all those outcomes. Suddenly the clipboards disappeared. The NYPD, which initially claimed it was saving paper, now says making the disciplinary findings available even to that limited degree was a violation of the 1976 law. Legal Aid sued the department for the records’ release. The case is pending. Those trials are nominally open to the public, but the schedule and location are not announced and the results are not disclosed. As a result, ordinary New Yorkers have essentially no way to know what goes on in the small, drab room on the 11th floor of headquarters at One Police Plaza, where officers accused of serious misconduct, such as stealing property, false arrest, or excessive force, can fight the charges. With little outside scrutiny, some officers told BuzzFeed News the internal trials are merely a “kangaroo court,” rife with favoritism, racism, and pressures to just plead guilty. Some said they did not fight their charges out of fear they would face harsher punishment. The hearings are overseen not by an independent judge but by a top police official who serves at the pleasure of the police commissioner. After hearing evidence, the trial administrator makes a private recommendation about whether the officer should be found guilty and what the punishment should be. But the police commissioner decides what to do with that recommendation. There are no rules governing that decision. If the trial administrator found the officer’s misconduct serious enough to merit dismissal, the police commissioner can overrule that recommendation. Despite this broad discretion, Rae Koshetz, who oversaw such hearings from 1988 to 2002, told BuzzFeed News that illegal drug use, anything related to stealing or corruption, and homicide are almost certain to result in termination. Koshetz was surprised and concerned when BuzzFeed News explained that the Probation Files include a dozen cases in which officers who were found guilty of drug use, theft or “knowingly possessing stolen property” were merely placed on a year of dismissal probation. “What kind of message does that send out to other officers?” Koshetz said. Lying is supposed to be a hard-and-fast rule that requires mandatory termination. According to the department’s patrol guide, officers who lie about a “material matter” will be dismissed from the department, unless there are “exceptional circumstances.” Richardson, the deputy commissioner of the department’s internal prosecutor’s office, said he considers lying a very serious offense, but not necessarily grounds for immediate firing. In certain circumstances, such as when an officer shows remorse, the department would opt for “dismissal probation to make sure that this officer and other officers who are watching this realize this is not something that will be tolerated from the police department,” he said. Among the officers listed in the Probation Files, at least 50 were found guilty of misleading or making “inaccurate” statements in official records, to grand juries, district attorneys, or internal affairs investigators — and yet were kept on the force. Officer Lisa Marsh, for example, then an officer at the 48th Precinct in the Bronx, covered up a crime and submitted false documents in connection with the investigation. Officer Carlos Reid “provided inaccurate facts” to the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office about an arrest. Detective Jesus Roldan, who currently works in Brooklyn according to payroll records, “made inaccurate statements” while testifying under oath to a grand jury. Despite the department’s public position that lying won’t be tolerated, all three of these officers, who did not respond to requests for comment, are still on the force. “Truly outrageous” False accusations from an officer can be enough to send an innocent person to prison. Earlier this year, for example, a Queens detective was convicted of fabricating drug evidence that sent an innocent man to jail for 52 days. In Brooklyn, allegations of witness and evidence tampering by the former homicide detective Louis Scarcella has led the district attorney to review more than 40 cases. To date, convictions in seven murder cases that Scarcella worked have been overturned — including one case where a wrongfully convicted man spent more than 20 years in prison. Every day, New Yorkers accused of a crime have to decide whether to take their chances in court or to plead guilty in exchange for lesser penalties. Without a good reason to question an officer's account, many defense lawyers will advise clients to take a plea deal, since juries are more likely to take the word of a cop than that of a defendant. Statewide, more than 98% of people charged with felonies that result in convictions plead guilty rather than go to trial. Proof that the officer in question had been convicted of lying could shift that calculus. But that proof is all but impossible to get before the defendant must make their decision. Prosecutors are obligated under federal law to hand over evidence that might exonerate a defendant, though what exactly that includes, and when it must be produced, is up for debate. Defense lawyers who want to see for themselves what’s in an officer’s disciplinary record must clear several hurdles. First they have to convince a judge that there is something in the officer’s file that’s directly relevant to the crime the defendant is accused of. That is a hard argument to make without already having seen the file. As a result, defense lawyers say they’re flying blind. Dan McGuinness, a criminal defense and civil rights lawyer who has worked in the New York courts since 2006, told BuzzFeed News all he can do is google around for news stories or lawsuits that mention the officer, hoping something has seeped out into public view. “Our hands really are tied,” he said. There could be so much more “beneath the surface,” McGuinness’s law partner, Adam Perlmutter, added. If defense lawyers are able to persuade a judge to review the records, there is still the question of whether the judge will approve their release. Even when ordered by a judge to hand over the material, prosecutors often wait until just before trial to do so, defense lawyers said, taking advantage of loopholes in New York’s discovery laws. That gives defense lawyers little time — in some cases just a few hours — to investigate the information, review evidence, locate and interview witnesses, and determine whether it will help prove their clients’ innocence. “They want trial by ambush,” John Schoeffel, a Legal Aid attorney, told BuzzFeed News. Victims of police brutality face the same uphill battle. In 2015, Rosie Martinez, a housekeeper at the time, accused two officers of beating her during an interrogation. As part of her civil rights lawsuit, Martinez’s lawyers sought access to the disciplinary files of the officers they believed were responsible. One of those officers, Sgt. Jason Forgione, had been put on dismissal probation for covering up an illegal search. That lie produced a cascade of bad results: Prosecutors were forced to drop a case against a convicted felon, and New York City taxpayers had to foot the bill for a $33,500 settlement. Neither Forgione, who declined to comment, nor the city admitted wrongdoing. But despite a judge’s order, the city failed to hand over any of that information. When the judge found out, she blasted the city’s lawyers and the NYPD. The city’s conduct is "truly outrageous," she wrote, and has irreparably damaged Martinez’s ability to fight her case. The case is ongoing. “They suffer twice — first at the hand of cops who abuse them and then by a city law department that puts them through the wringer if they have the temerity to sue over it,” said Joel Berger, a lawyer who used to work for the city defending cops in civil cases and now works as a civil rights lawyer. Defendants and victims of police misconduct aren’t the only ones harmed by the decision to keep officers on the force after serious offenses like lying. Officers who lie can also endanger legitimate police work and force prosecutors or judges to drop charges against people who should go to prison. A record of false statements “could jeopardize any case the officer was involved in,” said Bennett Capers, former federal prosecutor and Brooklyn Law School professor. “If nothing else, it could require prosecutors to reopen cases to see what role the officer played and whether it impacts our faith in past convictions.” Officer Luis Rios is one such example. Rios was convicted, in an NYPD trial, of lying. Instead of being fired, he was placed on dismissal probation. Five years later, during the trial of an accused drug dealer facing at least 20 years in prison, Rios was asked about that incident. He did not answer truthfully. “The court is therefore left with no confidence that any part of Officer Rios’ testimony can be ­assumed as true,” the judge wrote in a court order. He said he had no choice but to toss the charges for which Rios was the only witness. Instead, the defendant was sentenced to a year on lesser charges. Officer Rios, who did not respond to requests for comment, remains on the force today. Outside of public scrutiny, there is no standard for how the NYPD punishes misconduct. Minor infractions may result in a warning in one case and a serious penalty in another. One unnamed officer described by the Commission to Combat Police Corruption was assigned to a year of dismissal probation — and suspended for 122 days and docked pay for another 30 — for telling a supervisor that, as a single mother, she needed a couple of days to arrange for child care before being assigned to a new post. Several current and former officers told BuzzFeed News that the department assigned them to dismissal probation, and transferred them to new jobs, after they raised concerns about illegal quotas or discriminatory treatment. Most declined to be named, citing fears of further retaliation. Damon Porter, who left the NYPD in 2013, was one of the few who agreed to talk and provide BuzzFeed News with a copy of his disciplinary file. Five years into his 19-year career, he says he joined other Latino officers in a class-action lawsuit alleging discriminatory discipline standards. After that, Porter said, supervisors began writing him up for even the tiniest mistakes, issues they often ignored for other officers. In May 2012, he was called down to the trial room at One Police Plaza. While many of Porter’s charges were “relatively minor,” the trial commissioner, Robert Vinal, took him to task for being discourteous to a supervisor and not doing enough to investigate one case. Vinal recommended a year of probation — a significant statement considering that Porter’s partner in that case merely got a reprimand. But Commissioner Kelly felt that dismissal probation was not a strong enough penalty. He decided Porter was no longer fit to be a cop. Because he was one year shy of retirement age, that cost him at least $10,000 a year from his pension. Just nine months later, Officer Ray Marrero’s rap sheet landed on Kelly’s desk.
Authorities in Hong Kong have begun the unprecedented step of outlawing a political party that advocates the territory's independence from China. Secretary for Security John Lee announced Tuesday that he had sent a letter to Andy Chan, the founder of the Hong Kong National Party, giving him 21 days to issue a rebuttal why the group should not be banned. Lee said he was considering outlawing the party under an ordinance that cites the interest of national security and public safety, but did not give details of any particular accusations against the group. Under Hong Kong law, national security is defined as 'safeguarding of the territorial integrity and the independence of the People's Republic of China.' 'In Hong Kong, we have freedom of association, but that right is now without restriction,' Lee told reporters. This is the first time the Hong Kong government has sought to ban a political party since Britain returned sovereignty back to Beijing in 1997. China established a 'one country, two systems' formula that gave Hong Kong numerous freedoms, but Beijing has been tightening its grip in recent years, sparking a number of student-led pro-democracy and independence movements. The pro-independence Hong Kong National Party was born out of the massive 2014 'Umbrella Revolution' street protests demanding fully free elections.
SINGAPORE, June 28 (Xinhua) -- Governments, companies and academia need to form new partnerships to better address security issues that cut across sectors and national boundaries, said Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean on Thursday at the inaugural Singapore Defence Technology Summit. Teo said growing digital integration and interconnection among economies make the world more rely on key nodes and critical information infrastructure, and bring higher concentration risks which is not just a local disruption, but potentially a system-wide global one. "Governments and companies therefore need to address this concentration risk and work together with the research community to develop solutions to tackle these evolving vulnerabilities," he added. According to the deputy prime minister, Singapore looks forward to working with international partners to better understand how to deal with cyber attacks on national and global system, such as the global financial system and the cross-border trading or transport systems. Teo also called for global joint efforts in establishing new codes of practice and norms for technologies that are becoming ready for deployment, but where there are no international standards. He said the fourth industrial revolution features exciting breakthroughs in a wide range of areas, including data analytic, artificial intelligence, robotics, cognitive computing, Internet of Things and nanotechnology. These new technologies can bring opportunities to the global defence and security community, helping them achieve near comprehensive awareness, deal more effectively with conventional or traditional threats, achieve the mission with lower collateral damage in the battlefield, and protect borders by seeking out potential threats before they develop into actual attacks. However, the rapid technology development also poses new risks for the defence and security community, such as cyber attacks, drones used by terrorists and criminals, and the hybrid warfare encompassing the physical, virtual and socio-psychological spheres, Teo added. The Singapore Defence Technology Summit, organized by Singapore's Defence Science and Technology Agency, is held here from Wednesday to Friday. SINGAPORE, June 28 (Xinhua) -- Governments, companies and academia need to form new partnerships to better address security issues that cut across sectors and national boundaries, said Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean on Thursday at the inaugural Singapore Defence Technology Summit. Teo said growing digital integration and interconnection among economies make the world more rely on key nodes and critical information infrastructure, and bring higher concentration risks which is not just a local disruption, but potentially a system-wide global one. "Governments and companies therefore need to address this concentration risk and work together with the research community to develop solutions to tackle these evolving vulnerabilities," he added. According to the deputy prime minister, Singapore looks forward to working with international partners to better understand how to deal with cyber attacks on national and global system, such as the global financial system and the cross-border trading or transport systems. Teo also called for global joint efforts in establishing new codes of practice and norms for technologies that are becoming ready for deployment, but where there are no international standards. He said the fourth industrial revolution features exciting breakthroughs in a wide range of areas, including data analytic, artificial intelligence, robotics, cognitive computing, Internet of Things and nanotechnology. These new technologies can bring opportunities to the global defence and security community, helping them achieve near comprehensive awareness, deal more effectively with conventional or traditional threats, achieve the mission with lower collateral damage in the battlefield, and protect borders by seeking out potential threats before they develop into actual attacks. However, the rapid technology development also poses new risks for the defence and security community, such as cyber attacks, drones used by terrorists and criminals, and the hybrid warfare encompassing the physical, virtual and socio-psychological spheres, Teo added. The Singapore Defence Technology Summit, organized by Singapore's Defence Science and Technology Agency, is held here from Wednesday to Friday.
Coca-Cola's reduced sugar and sugar alternatives are too little, too late Updated May 30, 2018 16:34:48 Photo: Coke has promised to reduce the sugar content of its drinks, but children's health is still at risk. (Flickr: barekim) At last count, 28 countries and seven large cities in the USA had moved to introduce a tax on sugary drinks. Potential benefits are clear and include reducing costs from obesity and health-care spending, as well as the potential to increase a healthy life. Health groups in Australia have long called for the same to be done here. When Britain legislated for a sugary drink tax, graded according to the quantity of sugar used, some manufacturers significantly reduced the amount of sugar in their drinks before the law even came into practice. Echoing the tactic of some British companies, Coca-Cola in Australia is claiming it has taken action by "reducing sugar in 22 of our drinks since 2015", and is committing to "make all our new Coca-Cola flavours either reduced or no sugar". Their aim is for a 10 per cent reduction across their range by 2020. Coca-Cola's products with less sugar include: No nutritionist is going to knock reductions in sugar content, but even a single can of the new Coca-Cola with Stevia has 37 per cent of the World Health Organisation's (WHO) recommended maximum daily intake of sugar for an adult. The other products listed still have 55-78 per cent of the WHO maximum recommendation. Smaller pack sizes are being introduced and will help. And no-sugar versions of their major products are available, sweetened with intense (artificial) sweeteners such as stevia, acesulphame K, sucralose and aspartame. Sugar alternatives? Stevia can be made from the leaves of the Stevia rebaudiana plant which contain a variety of steviol compounds. These bypass digestion in the small intestine and are broken down by bacteria in the colon. Food Standards Australia New Zealand has approved the use of a wide range of different steviol compounds. Labelled either by its name or "additive 960", stevia is marketed by some as a "natural" product. Although what is added to drinks and other foods is a highly purified extract, often blended with a sugar alcohol (usually erythritol) or complex carbohydrates called oligosaccharides. In its favour, stevia has virtually no kilojoules, and can be used by those with diabetes. But its effect on "good" bacteria in the colon may be undesirable. Arguments continue to rage over whether intense sweeteners are beneficial or not. Some studies claim they help with weight loss. Others say they may increase the risk of excess weight and some associated health problems. Their effect on the "good" gut bacteria also needs careful evaluation. Nor does the dental disaster associated with soft drinks disappear with low or no sugar varieties. This is because much of the damage to dental enamel comes from their inherent acidity. The solution is to confine drinks to water or milk. Photo: Despite the large variety of sugars, they are very similar nutritionally. (Flickr.com: Gunilla G (CC-BY-SA-2.0)) Sugar coating? Those marketing sugary products cannot ignore the public outcry against sugar. But nor can their business stand too strong an anti-sugar movement. The "less sugar" move may be an attempt to tone down the criticism. How do we define moderation? It's an issue that has dogged those formulating dietary guidelines. In 1979, one of Australia's dietary goals was to "decrease refined sugar consumption". Two years later, the first guidelines included advice to "avoid eating too much sugar". Sugar sales fell, moving the sugar industry to mount a massive seven-year PR and advertising campaign to influence health professionals, the population, health ministers and food companies that sugar was "a natural part of life". They succeeded in so far as the wording was changed to "eat only a moderate amount of sugars and foods containing added sugars". Sales steadied. A review for the 2013 guidelines showed even stronger evidence that all added sugars should be limited, especially sugar sweetened soft drinks and cordials, fruit drinks, vitamin waters, energy and sports drinks. Confectionery, cakes, biscuits and pastries were also specifically added to the list along with advice that for many Australians there was no room in the diet for any of these foods. "Only moderate" amounts may be comfortable for the industry but it was way too vague to fit the evidence. "Less" sugar in sugary drinks is also too vague. Even for those who are not overweight, these drinks remain a hazard for our teeth. The only solution is to stop drinking them. Rosemary Stanton is a nutritionist and visiting fellow at UNSW. This article originally appeared on The Conversation. Topics: health, sugar, medical-research, diseases-and-disorders, diet-and-nutrition, australia First posted May 30, 2018 14:22:50
Kushner, President Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser, is unlikely to obtain the full clearance as long as the special counsel's probe is ongoing, one of the sources said. Kushner's application for a top-level security clearance has been held up for over a year in part because it cannot be completed while the special counsel's team continues to probe Kushner's contacts with Russians and his financial dealings with foreigners, the sources said. During that time, Kushner has been able to access the government's most sensitive secrets thanks to an interim security clearance. But that access could soon be cut off -- unless Trump steps in with a waiver. There is no indication that Mueller is close to wrapping up his investigation, and an impending crackdown by White House chief of staff John Kelly aimed at restricting access to classified information for those with long-pending interim clearances is expected to nix or downgrade Kushner's interim security clearance. The combination of factors could leave Kushner without a security clearance for months to come, even as he tackles sensitive issues like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the United States' relationship with Mexico. The situation is especially complicated for Kushner because the FBI isn't sharing information with the White House that would typically be relevant in a background investigation for security clearance. That's because sharing such information could compromise the special counsel's probe. Prompted by the latest scandal engulfing the West Wing -- domestic abuse allegations against a senior White House aide with a yearlong top-level interim security clearance -- Kelly released a five-page memo last Friday directing aides to "discontinue" interim security clearances for individuals whose security clearance applications have been pending since June 1 or earlier. He also ordered access to highly classified information be limited for the remaining aides with interim clearances. The White House has declined to say how many officials will be affected by the measure. White House principal deputy press secretary Raj Shah said during Thursday's briefing that he "can't get into specifics regarding individuals' security clearances or numbers." Kushner's attorney has acknowledged that Kushner's security clearance application has yet to be approved and said "my inquiries to those involved again have confirmed that there are a dozen or more people at Mr. Kushner's level whose process is delayed." But question marks still loom over the future of Kushner's access to classified information. The White House has declined to confirm whether Kushner's clearance would be revoked on Friday, with Kelly saying only that he has "full confidence in his ability to continue performing his duties in his foreign policy portfolio." Kushner's attorney, Abbe Lowell, also declined to elaborate when pressed by CNN, saying only via a statement that the new policy "will not affect Mr. Kushner's ability to continue to do the very important work he has been assigned by the President." Still, Kelly's memo signals Kushner would be swept up in the interim security clearance revocation given that the FBI began its background check investigation into the senior aide prior to June 1. "Effective one week from today, discontinue any Top Secret or SCI-level interim clearances for individuals whose investigations or adjudications have been pending since June 1, 2017 or before," Kelly wrote in the memo. Still, Kushner's security clearance woes could be swept away by his father-in-law, who as president can bypass the clearance process and grant anyone access to classified information. There is no known precedent for a president to make such a decision for anyone seeking a security clearance, according to security experts. The fate of Kushner's security clearance was not the only uncertainty that hung in the White House in the wake of Kelly's memo last week. The memo -- which Kelly addressed to only three top aides -- came as a surprise to most White House officials, who learned of Kelly's plans through media reports, two White House officials told CNN. Combined with the initial surprise, Kelly's memo has fueled uncertainty in the West Wing about how the memo's directives will impact daily operations. Less than 48 hours before the key directive about interim clearances was set to take effect, the officials said they and their colleagues had yet to receive any additional guidance on the memo's implementation. Beyond the clean-cut revocation of interim security clearances for those with applications pending since June 1 or prior, White House officials have fretted over how Kelly plans to "limit access to certain highly classified information for those individuals working with interim clearance status," as laid out in the memo. It remains unclear how Kelly will limit access to highly classified information. It's also not clear whether other White House officials whose actions have been scrutinized by Mueller have been unable to get a decision on their security clearance applications. White House communications director Hope Hicks, whose role in drafting a misleading statement about Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting with a Russian lawyer at Trump Tower has drawn Mueller's scrutiny, obtained a full Top Secret and sensitive compartmented information, or SCI, security clearances -- the highest levels of access -- in November or earlier, according to information obtained by CNN from a US government official. Unlike Hicks, Kushner has drawn Mueller's interest over his interactions with foreign officials, including Russians, and for his financial dealings with foreigners during the transition. Mark Zaid, an attorney who represents security clearance applicants, said ongoing criminal investigations can derail security clearance applications, even if the applicant is not a target of the investigation. "I have definitely had cases over the years where there was a parallel criminal investigation ... that was happening at the same time as there was a clearance investigation," Zaid said. "The security adjudicators would delay rendering a decision pending some outcome of the criminal case at least to the extent that it applies to that individual." As of November, White House counsel Don McGahn -- who has also been interviewed by Mueller's team -- had received a Top Secret clearance, but was still working off interim access to SCI. More than 100 White House officials were still working on interim clearances in November, according to the information provided to CNN. But a White House official with knowledge of the matter said a slew of officials saw their clearances approved in late December and early January.
After launching its Falcon 9 rocket from California this morning, SpaceX used a giant net to try to recover the rocket’s nose cone as it fell down in the Pacific Ocean. The first-time experiment failed, however: one of the pieces of the nose cone missed the net, which was attached to a ship, and landed intact on the sea surface instead. Also known as the payload fairing, the nose cone is an earplug-shaped casing that sits on the top of the rocket, shielding the vehicle’s payload during launch. Once in space, the fairing breaks apart into two pieces and falls back to Earth. Normally, companies don’t recover the pieces of the fairing after a launch, but SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has been eager to find a way to save the hardware. “Imagine you had $6 million in cash in a palette flying through the air, and it’s going to smash into the ocean,” Musk said during a press conference in March 2017. “Would you try to recover that? Yes. Yes, you would.” SpaceX has become famous for landing its rockets after launch so they can fly again. But the way SpaceX plans to recover its fairing is quite different from how it recovers its rockets. The Falcon 9 boosters essentially reignite their engines as they fall back to Earth, helping to control and slow their descent. A typical rocket fairing doesn’t have any onboard engines, however. So SpaceX has equipped its latest nose cone with a guidance system and thrusters, tiny engines that help guide the pieces through the atmosphere when they break away from the rocket. Then, as the pieces descend, they deploy thin parachute-like structures known as parafoils to slow their fall. Down at the surface, a SpaceX boat named Mr. Steven (a random name, Musk said) attempts to catch one of the fairing pieces with a giant net attached to large claw-like appendages. SpaceX has been able to land its fairings in the ocean before, but this was the first time the company deployed Mr. Steven to catch one of the pieces. Musk noted that a fairing half missed the boat by a few hundred meters. However, the company should be able to fix the problem by making the parafoils bigger, he said. Though the pieces may have landed undamaged in the Pacific, it’s unclear if they can be used again. The possibility seems unlikely, as seawater can cause significant damage to spacecraft without proper shielding. In January, one of SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rockets somehow managed to survive intact after falling in the Atlantic Ocean, and Musk said the company would attempt to pull it back to shore. But that never happened. “The stage broke apart before we could complete an unplanned recovery effort for this mission,” SpaceX said in a statement. Still, SpaceX will keep trying to save more nose cones in the months ahead. “My guess is next six months we’ve got fairing recovery figured out,” Musk said during a press conference for the Falcon Heavy launch. He even added that Mr. Steven could be used to catch more than just the fairing. “I think we can do the same thing with Dragon,” he said, referring to the company’s crew and cargo spacecraft.
Springboks naming Siya Kolisi as first black Test captain is one step on long road to change Updated May 30, 2018 18:56:59 The appointment of Siya Kolisi as the Springboks' first black Test captain in their 127-year history has been welcomed as an important milestone in South African rugby's ongoing efforts to reconcile its past with its present. As well as offering optimism for its future. Kolisi's merited elevation is a cause for celebration for those working to advance the cause of non-white players in South Africa. But that it still now remains something exceptional and remarkable only serves to underline the painfully slow-paced and inherently problematic journey towards transformation of the sport in post-apartheid South Africa. It is a journey that is far from over. Photo: Siya Kolisi has been a vital member of the Springboks team since his debut in 2013. It is 24 years since institutionalised racial segregation came to an end in South Africa. A year later Nelson Mandela donned a Springboks jersey — long a symbol of racial division in sport in the country — when handing over the World Cup, hosted by South Africa, to Francois Pienaar in a moment drenched in symbolism and optimism in a country wrestling with reconciliation. One none-white player, Chester Williams, played in the 1995 final. The following tournament in 1999 saw the first black African feature when Kaya Malotana earned his solitary cap. And yet, despite such landmark moments, and the subsequent success of players like Bryan Habana and Tendai Mtawarira, moves to transform the team to one more reflective of the demographics of the "rainbow nation" have been uneven and woefully incomplete. Most rugby teams in South Africa are even today still largely the preserve of white players and coaches. It is a legacy of the sport's heartland being within the Afrikaners community. If Mandela's embracing of the Springboks was symbolic of that moment in South African history, the continued lack of opportunities for non-white rugby players is emblematic of the wider social struggle for people who have found political freedom but not the socio-economic liberty the end of apartheid had offered hope of. Big ambitions, slow progress Malotana hopes Kolisi can be a "gate to open doors" but remains disappointed at the rate of progress on racial representation in the sport since his own breakthrough, telling the South African news organisation Independent Media: "The only reason we are celebrating the first black Springbok captain in 2018 is exactly because the transformation agenda has not been made a priority from the powers that be". The South African Rugby Union (SA Rugby) would dispute the notion they are not working hard enough to foster change. And insist they are making progress. In 2014 its general council approved a "transformation plan" to try and accelerate non-white representation in the sport. That document stated the ambition of securing a 50/50 split both on and off the field by the 2019 World Cup. A year out that target looks well beyond being met. Earlier this month the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) submitted its annual Sport Transformation Status report, in which SA Rugby were deemed to have met 60 per cent of their short-term targets (set by SA Rugby themselves and approved by the department of sport). However, despite SA Rugby's positive take, the report laid bare the continued lack of representation for black Africans in rugby. Some 58 per cent of senior male participants in the national game in 2016 (the period the report covered) were white, with just 22 per cent black. The white population in the country makes up barely 10 per cent. "Leadership in codes with large white demographic profiles have to be proactive in putting strategies in place to counter the inevitable consequences of the strategic demographic realities," the report warned in its conclusion. EPG committee secretary Willie Basson praised the commitment from SA Rugby but pointed to a need to "open the pipeline" to the pool of future national team players among school age children, of whom the vast majority are black Africans. Poor facilities in areas where black youngsters play their rugby and the continued reliance on a small number of predominantly white schools to produce top level rugby players is a continuing impediment to progress. The story of Kolisi, who also captains Western Stormers in Super Rugby, offers some hope in that regard. The 26-year-old flanker grew up in a poor township in South Africa's Eastern Cape province before being spotted by rugby scouts and earning a scholarship to Grey High School, one of the top educational centres in the region. With Kolisi the sport has offered a gifted, dedicated man a route to personal success that may have been denied him elsewhere. And in turn the game has benefitted from his involvement. His story demonstrates with crystal clear clarity the value in rugby in South Africa looking beyond its natural constituency — for the pragmatic reasons of unlocking latent talent to fuel future success, even aside from the basic moral imperative to do so. Kolisi will be on the sideline for Saturday's international against Wales in Washington, his Stormers teammate Pieter-Steph du Toit wearing the armband for that fixture before the flanker prepares to lead against the English in a three-Test series. "It's a huge honour to captain the Springboks," said coach Rassie Erasmus, "and Siya and Pieter-Steph are two honest, hardworking men who enjoy the respect of their fellow players". "My philosophy is that each player must take responsibility for his position and must therefore work extremely hard with that one goal in mind — to make the Springboks successful again." How to make the Springboks successful again while grappling with politics of identity and fairness is a debate that has raged ever since South Africa were readmitted in to the wider sporting community. The makeup of the team and the methods for promoting non-whites to the national side — the rights and wrongs of "positive discrimination" and quotas — have dominated the build-up to every World Cup since 1995 and will do so again next year. Kolisi's historic appointment, however, stands as hard evidence that the transformation process, despite beliefs to the contrary, can strengthen rather than weaken the two-time World Cup winners. Topics: rugby-union, sport, super-rugby, rugby-union-world-cup, south-africa First posted May 30, 2018 15:14:21
Ryanair wrote to Ialpa on Monday agreeing to meet in a neutral venue, breaking a deadlock over where talks should take place. Photograph: Andy Rain/EPA A pilots’ strike at Ryanair is likely to go ahead on Thursday even though both sides are set to meet tomorrow. Members of the Irish Airline Pilots’ Association (Ialpa) in Ryanair plan to strike in a dispute over seniority, possibly disrupting holidaymakers at the Republic’s airports. A trade union statement yesterday said the industrial action was likely to go ahead even though Ialpa has accepted Ryanair’s invitation to meet the company tomorrow. Passengers due to fly with Ryanair on Thursday are due to learn today what contingency plans the airline may have in place. The company promised to contact affected customers by text and email today when the pilots’ union served strike notice last week. Ryanair wrote to Ialpa – part of trade union Fórsa – yesterday agreeing to meet in a neutral venue, breaking a deadlock over where talks should take place. Pilots wanted to meet on neutral ground, while the airline favoured negotiating at its head office in Swords, Co Dublin. The airline’s chief people officer, Eddie Wilson, wrote to Fórsa national secretary Angela Kirk saying the airline would meet pilots’ representatives in Dublin Airport. The union later accepted the airline’s invitation to meet in the Seán Lemass Room in Terminal One in Dublin Airport tomorrow morning. Pilots want a seniority agreement with the airline, along with a transparent system for dealing with issues such as base allocation, annual leave and other matters tied to length of service. Ryanair maintains it has already sent proposals dealing with these issues to Ialpa. The union said it remained determined to work towards resolving the dispute.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — Residents can now access the Albuquerque International Sunport’s aircraft flight tracking and noise complaint system, backed by Harris Corp.’s PublicVue. In the system, users can view active flights near the Sunport, search through historical flight data and report noise concerns directly to airport personnel. “Our vision for the airport is not only to serve as the state’s hub for getting around the world, but also as a valuable partner for the community,” said Nyika Allen, the city’s aviation director, in a statement. “We want residents to know that we hear them and we work for them – that means through the good and the bad. We want to alleviate aircraft noise as much as possible without hindering airport operations.” Airport officials say the system makes reporting noise and identifying possible causes easier for residents and provides the airport’s operations personnel more information to analyze and assess. To access the flight tracking and noise complaint system, visit abqsunport.com/flightsairlines/flight-tracking-and-noise-complaints. CALLING ALL COOKS AND CHEFS: Registration for artisans, food trucks, cooks and volunteers is now open for the 2018 version of the Bosque Chile Festival. New at this year’s festival is the “chicharron challenge,” which will feature restaurant cooks and chefs frying up their own versions of the dish. Winners of the competition will each take home a custom-made Disc-it grill, plate or utensils, as well as chicharron chops bragging rights as the Bosque’s best of 2018. A panel of judges and people who attend the event will cast their votes for the winners. Entry fee for the “chicharron challenge” is $25. Presented by Bernalillo County and the National Hispanic Cultural Center, the Bosque Chile Festival will take place from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Aug. 18 at the center, 1701 Fourth SW, Albuquerque. Admission is $5 and kids 5 years and younger are free. Food vendor and artisan fees range from $100 to $200 for early bird rates, which increase after July 27. This is a juried process for vendors, meaning each vendor must submit a pictured portfolio with their application. To sign up for the competitions, become a vendor or learn more about the event, visit bernco.gov/bosquechilefestival. Steve Knight: sknight@abqjournal.com
By JOSEPH MURAYA, NAIROBI, Kenya, Jun 5 – All the suspects who were charged over the loss of Sh468 million at the National Youth Service will remain in remand prison as their cases progress in court. They include NYS Director General Richard Ndubai, Principal Secretary for Youth and Gender Affairs Lillian Omollo and 42 others who have been in custody since they faced charges. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti said he could not release them on bond because they are facing serious economic crimes with the potential of causing anarchy, a threat to peace and national security. “As such, bail will not be automatically granted,” Ogoti ruled. “I direct that the cases be expedited.” He noted that the offences were serious as they related to economic crimes. “They affect the economy and the country as a whole. They affect the society in totality and bring out the issue of threats to national security. This is because the national community is affected. It affects employment and brings ripple effects that lead to issues of national insecurity. These offences against the accused should not be understated.” The court, he assured had put in place elaborate measures by way of pre-trial conferencing to ensure speedy trials. “For this reason bail is denied as the trials will not delay. All parties are encouraged to participate fully in the pre-trial conferences and allow the trials to hit the road as soon as possible. These trials will not delay,” he ruled. Though the lawyers representing the suspects had wanted the pre-trial hearings pushed further to allow them to study documents the prosecution is using against their clients, the Chief Magistrate insisted that they will proceed on Wednesday. He, however, directed that the prosecution furnish the defence with all the documents they required by Tuesday evening. The suspects will appear before three anti-corruption courts in Milimani, but to ensure the process is seamless, the Chief Magistrate assured that no case will be heard at the same time. “When an individual behaves in a disharmonious manner ushering in disorderly things which the community disapproves, the legal consequences are bound to follow. At this stage, the court has a duty. It cannot abandon its sacrosanct obligation and pass an order at its own whim or caprice,” he said. The magistrate further ordered a police officer to ascertain if PS Omollo is indeed admitted to hospital after prison authorities failed to produce her in court. She was admitted to the Kenyatta National Hospital on Tuesday last week, a day after being remanded at the Lang’ata Women’s Prison after denying charges of abuse of office and other corruption-related offences. In response, her lawyer said “It is your people who have taken her to Kenyatta National Hospital. If we had a chance, she would be hospitalized in a better facility.” While in remand, prison authorities were directed to ensure suspects who get unwell are given the required medication. A lawyer had submitted in court that his client had a heart condition and that he would like to be attended to at a private hospital other than Kenyatta National Hospital. Three other suspects who only surrendered themselves to court on Tuesday will take their plea on Wednesday after spending the night at Gigiri Police Station.
HONOLULU — The number of Hawaii teachers quitting their jobs and leaving the state is becoming a growing concern. The Department of Education’s employment reports show that 411 teachers resigned and left the state from 2016-17, up from 223 in 2010. Fewer graduates from Hawaii teacher education programs are entering the profession. Hawaii Teachers Association President Corey Rosenlee told the Board of Education’s Human Resources Committee Thursday that the number of graduates joining the Department of Education fell by nearly 30 percent, from 545 in the 2010-11 school year to 387 in the 2016-17 school. “This is of course a huge alarm,” he said. “We have a collision of two really big problems.” The state’s high cost of living and low teacher salaries are among the factors driving away Hawaii educators. Carrie Rose is one of the teachers leaving the state. She worked as a special education teacher at Waialua Elementary School and is getting ready to move to Colorado. The decision to leave was not easy, she said. “I love what I do, I love the people I work with, and I have great staff and administration,” she said. “But providing my kids with a quality of life in Hawaii is just becoming harder and harder each year.” She has accepted a job in Colorado Springs, Colorado, despite the fact that it comes with a pay cut. “When you compare the cost of living, the average median home price in Colorado Springs is about $250,000. And with the position I just took, I don’t pay anything for my medical,” Rose said. Nationally, the interest in an education major has dropped, Rosenlee said. The state is hoping to draw teachers back into its classrooms with a new 5-year strategic plan to improve teacher recruitment and retention. The plans’ six objectives include: build capacity locally, increase teacher satisfaction, provide meaningful incentives for recruitment and retention, effectively market the teaching profession and improve the special-education teaching experience. Schools Superintendent Dr. Christina Kishimoto told KHON-TV that the special education teacher shortage needs to be addressed first. One idea that was suggested at the Thursday meeting involves paying special education teachers for the extra hours they put in after school, handling individual education plans. “A one-size approach to this is not going to get us where we need to go,” Kishimoto said. “We need some bold action. We have to as a community be willing to try something different.”
Ay caramba! During a discussion about gun rights at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference Thursday, Sen. Ted Cruz said, "The Democrats are the party of Lisa Simpson and Republicans are happily the party of Homer, Bart, Maggie and Marge." Ben Domenech, the publisher of The Federalist, said he knows the Texas Republican is a "big fan" of The Simpsons and he brought up a debate between Homer Simpson and his oldest daughter Lisa from the show's "Cartridge Family" episode. "Dad, the Second Amendment is just a remnant from revolutionary days," Lisa tells Homer after he says he has a constitutional right to own a gun. "You couldn't be more wrong, Lisa," Homer replies. "If I didn't have this gun, the king of England could just walk in here anytime he wants and start shoving you around." Domenech incorrectly said Homer also told Lisa guns were for protecting your family and hunting delicious animals, but those lines were actually from Krusty the Clown, who was chastising Homer for his irresponsible use of his handgun. (Krusty also mentioned guns were for "keeping the king of England out of your face.") Although Homer clearly would side with Cruz and Domenech on the gun control debate — and several other Republican issues — it is equally clear that Cruz was dead wrong about Marge, who is against buying the gun, refers to the NRA as "gun nuts," and ends up leaving Homer because he lies to her about getting rid of the gun. One of the show's creators took issue with Cruz's statement. "Ted Cruz says Maggie Simpson would vote for him," Al Jean said. "I think Ted's the one who could use a pacifier in his mouth." Jean also said the "way things are going even Mr. Burns is thinking of becoming a Democrat." Cruz's argument is not helped by the fact Homer is a horribly irresponsible gun owner. In the episode he: It is also notable that the left-leaning Lisa becomes president in a March 2000 episode, in which she succeeds President Trump, who left the country with "quite a budget crunch."
Global markets sold off last week after investors became concerned that the tit-for-tat rhetoric from Beijing and Washington may lead to an all-out trade war between the world's two economic powerhouses. On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed in correction, down 11.6 percent from its 52-week high. The sell-off continued into Asia on Monday morning when most major index declined. Analysts said that risk aversion in the market will likely stay until things start to calm down between the U.S. and China. On Saturday, some of the world's top economists and business leaders at the China Development Forum in Beijing warned about the risks of a trade war between the two economic powerhouses. So for this week's Trader Poll, we're asking you: How are you viewing the stock market this Easter?
'Tortuous' language in industrial awards needs to go, says Fair Work boss Updated June 06, 2018 16:34:25 Australia's complex awards system is a real barrier to workers being paid properly by small businesses, the head of Australia's industrial relations umpire says. The ABC has recently revealed allegations in the hospitality sector of employers underpaying staff by hundreds of dollars a week, taking tips as punishment or cancelling shifts after being asked for award rates. Fair Work Commission (FWC) president Iain Ross believes such cases represent a minority of employers. But many of those operators are saying the award system is too complicated to understand, and Justice Ross agrees with them. In a rare interview, he told RN's Best Practice the system needs "significant improvements" to make awards easier to understand for small business operators. "For the balance, they want to know what it is they have to pay their employees and what their legal obligations are," he said. "Our obligation is to try to make that as clear as we can so that they can comply." Ashik Ahmed, CEO of workforce management software company Deputy, says there is a lack of awareness and understanding among small business owners of what their workers should be paid. He says when he helps businesses manage varying rates of pay for their staff, it's "an eye-opener" for employers. Hospitality, clerical, manufacturing and construction are among the industries most affected by what Justice Ross describes as "a high proportion of small businesses and a complexity in the current award that needs to be addressed". As part of a FWC-initiated plain language review, awards are being edited, redesigned and re-written. Removing the legalese The Australian award system is clearer than it was — there were once three awards for brush and broom-making, two for glue-making and a standalone award for potato crisp makers. Hundreds of manufacturing awards have been condensed into just one, and since the 2009 Fair Work Act came in, 122 awards exist where there used to be thousands. But awards remain bogged down by jargon. In research conducted in 2014 for the FWC by Sweeney Research, small business operators described awards as "convoluted, complex, ambiguous [and] of questionable relevance". "[Awards are] written by lawyers as a legal document, which neither the employee nor the employer or the manager can interpret," Mr Ahmed said. He says the rates aren't wrong, but the language is. "If I'm working weekends where I'm sacrificing my social life or my family time, yes, I need to be rewarded appropriately for the work that I'm doing — or if I'm working after hours," he said. "Everything as far as the penalty rates are concerned is perfectly fine in my opinion." Photo: Small business operators in industries like construction are finding awards convoluted and ambiguous. (Cameron Pashak/iStockphoto.) What's not right, he says, is the "super complex" language used in the awards. Justice Ross says the FWC's review has prioritised this concern, focusing on plain language translations. "The objective of this review process is that an award should be able to be read by an employer or an employee at the workplace without needing a history lesson or a paid advocate to interpret it," he said. "The challenge is how do you address the vast range of practical issues that might arise and yet keep an award to a reasonable length. "That's the process we're going through at the moment." Ignorance no excuse, says union ACTU secretary Sally McManus says the balance of the industrial relations system swings too far towards employers, and that too often employers' interests are catered to above the needs of workers. She disagrees that the problem of workers being incorrectly paid is attributable to complicated awards. "We know from numerous inquiries and investigations that wage theft is systemic and cannot be blamed on ignorance of the rules," Ms McManus said. She says the process of recovering stolen wages needs to be simplified. "Stopping wage theft is in the interest of both working people and those employers who pay fairly and have to compete with crooks," she said. "Rather than pandering to dodgy employers at the cost of fairness to the victims of wage theft, we need to make recovery much simpler and more accessible for working people." Input from small business owners The Sweeney Research — part of a "citizen co-design" project — has informed the FWC's redesign of the awards system. The co-design project involved group discussions and in-depth interviews with 47 small business owners from across Victoria and New South Wales. "The information needs of participants were clear," the report states; "they sought certainty, efficiency, ease and support". Business operators didn't want to know, for example, that a barista should get '107 per cent of c14 classification level', Justice Ross explains. "What they wanted to know was, what's the hourly rate to pay at particular times, and they wanted a schedule for that purpose," he said. "They also wanted the award logically structured; so, for example, you deal with termination of employment at the end of the award not the beginning, and you group similar provisions together." Justice Ross says small business owners can expect to see revised awards, that have absorbed feedback such as this, by the first quarter of next year. Topics: industrial-relations, small-business, hospitality, work, australia First posted June 06, 2018 11:40:45
The Best Picture race this year was burdened with capital M “Meaning,” more so than in other years in recent memory. The majority of the nominees dovetailed serendipitously with the major cultural debates taking place in in the real world: #MeToo, race, queer representation, the current administration’s war with the press, and so on. And this was the second year since the academy altered its membership rules in response to #OscarsSoWhite, bringing in a flood of new voters who skew younger and more diverse than they have traditionally been in the past, with a quarter of the new members having joined within the past four years. Regardless of who wound up taking home the top prize, it seemed that the choice would feel like a referendum on how much the academy has or hasn’t shifted in its 90 years leading up to Sunday night. Would fresh blood really make for more outside-of-the-box winners, like with Moonlight last year? The answer, it seems, is yes and no. At the conclusion of a typically long and mostly predictable ceremony, Guillermo del Toro’s The Shape of Water, the Cold War–era fantasy about a mute woman (Sally Hawkins) whose love for a fishman disrupts the lives of her gay best friend and black co-worker, was crowned Best Picture. On the one hand, the win broke the mold: For the first time in Oscar’s 90-year history, a science-fiction film won in this category. Yet the movie’s triumph feels like a cold, scaly disappointment. It’s liked well enough by critics and audiences (this writer included), but in such a politically charged year, even the fish-monster sex movie feels boringly safe. Unlike the majority of the other films in the category, The Shape of Water reflects the type of understanding of intersectionality that liberal thinkers strive for. It’s not focused “only” on race, as Get Out is, or only on queer love, as is Call Me by Your Name, or only about a woman’s life-changing self-discovery, as seen in Lady Bird and The Post, respectively. Nope, instead, The Shape of Water encompasses all of those hot-button issues through its three protagonists: the mute custodian (whose presence also brings in the issue of disability), the closeted Giles (Richard Jenkins), and the hard-working black woman Zelda (Octavia Spencer). Each of them broadly represents, quite obviously, a different marginalized group for audiences to identify with, and the arguable fourth protagonist, the monster, ties it all together, representing every kind of “other” that has been demonized both in the movies and in real life. Meanwhile, Del Toro deliberately set the film in the early 1960s, before “the end of Camelot,” because he had correctly identified that as the time that many Americans think of when they speak of wanting to “Make America Great Again”—despite the fact that that time was perhaps only truly great if you were a straight, white, able-bodied man. This connection to our current president, however, lurks deep in the subtext, and it’s this historical lens, as well as the fairy-tale setting around it (del Toro deliberately bookends the film with a storybook intro and outro) that made Shape a more palatable pick than a more contemporary and challenging film such as Get Out. By placing the story in the past and gussying it up with nostalgic allusions to Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, he distances the audience from the issues, adding much more than a spoonful of sugar, even though at their core, they remain maddeningly relevant today. The threat of a male boss wielding his power over the women who work for him, as embodied by the staunch, sadistic U.S. Col. Strickland (Michael Shannon), is #MeToo in a nutshell—but the character is written as an almost comic-book villain who speaks in such overtly sexist, racist terms that he seems wholly a product of his time, as antiquated as his Cadillac Coupe de Ville. Had it won, Get Out would have been the first Best Picture in 50 years to show racism from a contemporary and primarily black perspective. Get Out, on the other hand, may have been single-minded in its overarching subject—race—but it hit viewers where it hurt. While both films rely heavily on allegorical elements and the subversion of genre conventions to tell their stories, Jordan Peele lets his allegory play out in the here and now, forcing even contemporary, liberal white audiences to confront their own prejudices. Had it won, it would’ve been only the second Best Picture after In the Heat of the Night, 50 years ago, to show racism from a contemporary black perspective. (Moonlight was only indirectly “about” race, and past winners such as Driving Miss Daisy and 12 Years a Slave all pointed their lens backward in time.) And even more so than In the Heat of the Night, Get Out is an indictment of white America that provides no “good” white characters or saviors. The only other Best Picture–nominated film to feel so ripped from the headlines of 2017 was Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, and thankfully that film proved polarizing enough to keep the academy from embarrassing itself with a repeat of 2006, when it gave its top award to another film in which a racist cop finds something akin to redemption by coming to the aid of a sexual assault victim. But while The Shape of Water might be no Crash, it’s not easy to get excited about its place in the academy’s history books, either. Instead, 2018 seems to have found its King’s Speech or The Artist, the kind of likable winner that elicits little more than a shrug when—or if—you ever think back on it. Read more in Slate about the Oscars.
The Next Guardian, a documentary co-directed by former BBS producer Arun Bhattarai and Dorottya Zurbó of Hungary will compete in the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam (IDFA) in Netherlands in November. The documentary will be screened four times between November 15th and 22nd at the festival. The Next Guardian will compete against 14 others in the category of IDFA Competition for First Appearance. The documentaries in the category compete for two awards – IDFA Award for Best First Appearance and IDFA Special Jury Award for First Appearance. The 72-minute documentary produced at the cost of about Nu 4,000,000 finished filming in September. Arun Bhattarai said that he is delighted to have the film screened at IDFA, an influential documentary film festival in the world. “It is a big platform to show a Bhutanese story to an international audience attended by film producers, directors and documentary film enthusiasts.” Arun Bhattarai and Dorottya Zurbó are graduates from DocNomads Joint Masters in Lisbon, Budapest and Brussels. They worked together on many documentary projects on topics such as adolescence, migration, and multiculturalism. “Our different cultural backgrounds helped us approach these subjects with more sensitivity and formal experiments.” Arun Bhattarai said that Bhutan is a country in transition and that the younger generation today are growing up with completely different dreams. “A documentary film can be a mirror to our society without being judgemental and saying what is right or what is wrong. As a film maker I am working to reflect the dreams and aspirations of young Bhutanese people in my film.” The film explores the clash of dreams of two generations in an ancient Buddhist monastery in Bumthang when Gyembo, an ordinary teenager, is chosen as the next guardian of the family monastery by his father. The film brings to the fore the irony of two generations with contrasting dreams. Arun Bhattarai said the story of the family living in the monastery gave possibilities to talk about more universal issues such as family, generation conflict, father-son relationship, and identity in our society. The directors first got to know Tashi, the youngest daughter of the family who was participating in the selection camp of under 14 girls’ national football team in 2015. “I met Tashi at the girls’ football academy in Gelephu. Later, when we went to visit her family in Bumthang we discovered that there was a bigger story here,” Arun Bhattarai said. He said that when they heard Tashi’s father refer to her as ‘he’ they felt they found something special. “We found a family in a traditional part of the world that is trying to find ways to understand the changing sexuality of their child in teen, with love and acceptance through their Buddhist interpretation of life.” However, he said that in contrast to this acceptance, they found that there is a bigger conflict inside the family related to the inheritance of the monastery and family heritage. “That is why we decided to put the inheritance of the monastery at the centre of our story that represents the microcosm of a culture on the verge of change.” He added: “Through the personal journey of the siblings it becomes a modern tale of a forgotten part of the globe that you can rarely find in our uniformalised and globalised world anymore.” Arun Bhattarai said the project was difficult because it is a long-term observational film that was made with minimum interference with reality. “It took a lot of time and patience to build my relationship with my characters and also to understand their dreams and worries so that I could build a story that was as close to their reality as possible.” Arun Bhattarai said that after the film completes its festival circle, he wants to use it as a self-reflexive tool for the youth and their families in re-thinking existing values and societal norms. “I want to travel with my film to remote communities in Bhutan and involve them in talking about the themes in the film and have open discussions amidst audiences made up of varying generations.” The production of the film was supported by Creative Europe Media Fund, the IDFA Bertha Fund and Ford Foundation. It also won funding supportat several international pitching forums.
When, in 2001, the actor Frankie Faison accepted the role of deputy commissioner Ervin Burrell in a new HBO drama called The Wire, he thought he was signing up for a cop show. “I was expecting it to be more about wiretapping,” he remembers with amusement. “It evolved into something much more fascinating.” HBO laboured under a similar misapprehension because The Wire’s creator, David Simon, had pitched the show to them as an unusually thoughtful police procedural, not an anatomy lesson in US dysfunction that he really had in mind. “I sold it as a cop show, but they don’t know it’s not really a cop show,” he told the novelist George Pelecanos when he invited him to join the writing team. In fact, he said, it was something audaciously new: “A novel for television.” Exactly 10 years after its final episode aired, The Wire is established as one of the greatest shows in the history of US television – some would say the greatest. But, while shows such as The Sopranos and Mad Men launched with loud fanfares and walked paths strewn with accolades, strong ratings and Emmy awards, The Wire’s route to the pantheon was a long slog. “David Simon had to fight for every season,” says Clarke Peters (Det Lester Freamon). “Nothing was ever guaranteed.” The story began in 1984, when Simon, then a journalist on the Baltimore Sun, was covering the wiretap-related arrest of a local drug lord, Melvin Williams. Ed Burns, 14 years his senior, was the detective leading the case. As both of them were blunt, abrasive, fiercely intelligent and morally enraged by the status quo, they became friends. After Simon’s 1991 nonfiction masterpiece Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets became a hit NBC show, Homicide: Life on the Street, which ran for seven seasons between 1993 and 1999, both men quit their jobs. Burns became a teacher, and the two collaborated on the 1997 book The Corner: A Year in the Life of An Inner-City Neighbourhood, which examined the futile cruelty of the war on drugs from the other end of the telescope. The Corner became an HBO miniseries, which enabled the 40-year-old Simon to pitch The Wire to HBO’s CEO, Chris Albrecht, and entertainment division president, Carolyn Strauss, as “the anti-cop show, a rebellion of sorts against all the horseshit police procedurals afflicting American television”. Simon would later describe The Wire in different ways: as “Greek tragedy for the new millennium,” with sclerotic institutions playing the role of callous, indifferent gods; as a story about “the triumph of capitalism over human value”; and as a chronicle of “the decline of the American empire”. On Homicide: Life on the Street, NBC executives would repeatedly ask the writers: “Where are the victories?” The Wire avoided victories, preferring to show corruption, failure and decay. In this show, reformers would be thwarted, crooks rewarded and ordinary people ground down by the system. The Wire was as much journalism as entertainment – a form of protest television. The most frequent question asked in this writers’ room was: “What are we saying?” When The Wire began production in late 2001, Simon’s and Burns’s burning conviction was inspiring. “They were two different cats,” says Peters. “I felt an avuncular vibe from Ed. David was blinkered and focused, always under pressure. He really had to hold the reins of this team of horses so that they didn’t gallop away.” “They were such a unique pair to be writing this show,” says John Doman (deputy commissioner William Rawls). “Their view was from the inside out, not from the outside in. They knew the stories and the characters first-hand. I think The Wire really tore the cover off an American city and showed that, for so many people, the American dream was dead.” Simon was an authenticity hound who described his writing as “stealing life”. If the people he was writing about didn’t think his work rang true, then he had failed, regardless of what viewers thought. So he drew on individuals, anecdotes and snatches of dialogue that he had picked up as a reporter. Believing that most television writers didn’t have an ear for the streets, nor much interest in the lives of people living in poverty in urban areas, Simon put together a team of crime novelists (Pelecanos, Dennis Lehane and Richard Price) and former colleagues from the Baltimore Sun. “The final decision was always David’s, but he encouraged debate and wanted to be persuaded that there was a better way to go, if you could argue it successfully,” says Rafael Alvarez, a former reporter who became a staff writer on season two. “In one meeting, David and Ed went at it, over something I don’t recall, for more than an hour-and-a-half, with the rest of us watching like it was Ali v Frazier.” The show’s casting director, Alexa Fogel, also broke with industry norms, assembling a richly textured cast of stage actors, Britons, musicians, underused veterans, promising newcomers, complete novices and even some of the real cops, gangsters and politicians who inspired certain characters. “The number of African Americans cast on the show was groundbreaking for its time,” says Sonja Sohn, whose Det “Kima” Greggs was the strongest of the handful of female leads in The Wire’s very male universe. “I think I played the first black lesbian on television. The Wire ushered in a new interest in African American stories.” Simon encouraged his writers and actors to conduct field research. “Wendell Pierce [Det Bunk Moreland], Dominic West [Det Jimmy McNulty] and myself went out on some ride-alongs with Baltimore cops,” remembers Doman. “The cops were so blase. We went to the hospital, and one guy had been shot 13 times. The cops were standing around drinking coffee. It was another day at the office for these guys, but our eyes were popping out of our heads.” Simon’s attention to detail could be exhausting, but it was all in the service of telling the truth. “David was always there, making sure everything was done right,” says Faison. “People in Baltimore were very passionate about this show. It put them on a stage where they could be seen. Everyone who came up to me said: ‘Good for you guys. Ain’t that the truth.’” As for the viewers, Simon wrote in his foreword to Alvarez’s 2010 book about the show The Wire: Truth Be Told: “The first thing we had to do was teach folks to watch television in a different way.” The Wire’s novelistic ambition messed with standard rhythms of television, interleaving drama with the “anti-drama” of everyday life. It dared to slow down and stretch out, demanding unusual patience and attention from viewers. “It went way beyond mere entertainment,” says Aidan Gillen (local politician, Tommy Carcetti). “It dealt with issues that no other shows would be interested in dealing with. It didn’t compromise in any areas. To get it, you had to watch and listen, and there was a risk that people might not have bothered, but they did.” While many prestige dramas, before and since, focused on a charismatic antihero, or at least a tight ensemble, The Wire didn’t have a central character unless you count Baltimore itself. Each season introduced characters while expanding or contracting the roles of existing ones without warning. To keep the cast “in the present tense”, only the writers knew what was coming next. Actors waited in suspense for each week’s script, some wondering if their characters would make it out alive. “People started disappearing and my paranoia kicked in,” says Peters. “I could pick up the script and someone might say: ‘Did you hear what happened to Freamon the other night?’ That was an ever-present spectre. In hindsight, that’s what living in Baltimore is like. You can catch a bullet filling up your car with gas.” “Initially, I just thought I was going to do a couple of episodes,” says Isiah Whitlock Jr, whose corrupt senator, Clay Davis, barely appeared in the first two seasons. “I had no idea where it was headed. It was quite a ride.” Tracking the methodical investigation into the Melvin Williams-inspired crack kingpin Avon Barksdale and his ambitious consigliere Stringer Bell, The Wire debuted in June 2002 to modest acclaim, attracting a mostly black fanbase of people who saw their lives reflected in the show: Doman remembers being approached by cops who would say: “I work for an asshole just like you!” It was with season two, which looked at “the death of labour”, that Simon made clear his intention to “build a city”. Otherwise, he told Burns, “we truly are doing just a cop show”. He wanted to show the connecting thread – the wire – that ran between seemingly different organisations and the people who worked in them. Alvarez believes that if Simon hadn’t succeeded in pitching The Wire, the themes driving the five seasons might instead have inspired five books. Whether he was exploring police departments, drug cartels, labour unions, the school system, newspapers or city hall, Simon was interested in how the machine worked, or failed to work. If he could explain Baltimore, then he could explain the US. “One of the problems here in the US is that we try to deal with the solution without understanding the why,” says Whitlock. “I always felt that The Wire explained to you the why. It said we’re gonna take it real slow, go deep and show you the whole landscape.” For viewers who embraced the first season as a gritty crime drama with a predominantly black cast, however, the pivot in season two to the travails of white dockworkers was a jolt, even as it pulled in new viewers. “I thought: ‘What the fuck is this? What happened to our drugs?’” says Peters. “For me, it was a way of saying: this isn’t about you. This is about the city of Baltimore. It was necessary.” Season three’s plot strand about Carcetti’s bid to become mayor of Baltimore even confounded some of the writers. Pelecanos, who lived in Washington DC, found politics “fucking boring”, but came around when he saw the results. Sooner or later, everyone learned to trust Simon’s vision. Over time, the cast and the crew of The Wire became a tight-knit family. “I had a rough time during the first season,” says Sohn. “The guys who supported me through that remain my brothers today.” The younger actors developed a reputation for hell-raising. Gillen remembers Simon warning him to “make sure and tape bail money to your person” before hitting the town with certain cast members. Older actors migrated towards the calmer climate at Peters’ house, a bohemian salon that became known as “the academy”. Meanwhile, HBO established outreach programmes to give something back to the city. “Because of our celebrity, some hard-heads who might want to sling crack or sling a bullet in your direction all of a sudden become little kids, and you have a window to touch their humanity,” says Peters. “We became actors on a mission because we had met the characters in the machine of Baltimore.” By season three, the cast was beginning to get recognised in the street outside Baltimore, but with ratings low and Emmy recognition negligible, HBO felt that the downfall of original antagonists Barksdale and Bell marked a natural conclusion. “HBO was spending all its promotional money on The Sopranos,” says Doman. “We were underground for a long time. We never knew whether we were going to get renewed until the last minute.” Simon insisted that he wasn’t done yet. He still wanted to explore the perverse incentives of Burns’s profession (teaching) and his own (journalism), and cajoled Albrecht and Strauss into letting The Wire live. It was a wise U-turn because the next season was the show’s artistic zenith. “Season four is where it broke open,” says Gillen. “I think centring the narrative around four teenage kids whose plight you couldn’t help but fret over brought a lot of people in.” Stephen King wrote that The Wire “has made the final jump from great TV to classic TV”. Even the divisive final season, in which Simon ground his axe with the media a little too loudly, didn’t dent its reputation. Then one final twist: The Wire’s popularity only really boomed once it was over. “A critical mass of critical praise had been established just in time for the series to be released as a DVD box set,” says Alvarez, who is now a novelist and screenwriter. “It spread very quickly, sort of like, ‘Did you hear the new Beatles song? You haven’t? You must!’ I had no idea that the show was going to become a cultural phenomenon to the degree that Barack Obama would one day cross paths with Andre Royo [the informant Bubbles] and call out: ‘Hey, Bubs!’ No one knew.” A decade later, The Wire’s legacy is unimpeachable. It established Simon as one of TV’s great auteurs: he is currently working with Pelecanos on season two of his latest HBO show, The Deuce. It transformed the careers of several actors, notably West, Gillen, Idris Elba and Michael B Jordan. “I thought, at the time, that nobody was paying much attention,” says Whitlock. “More people recognise me from the show than they ever did. I run into people who have just seen it and they want to talk to me about it. I have to tell them it was 10 years ago. You move on. But I’m very proud to have been a part of it.” It left its mark on the city, too. Sohn stayed in Baltimore to build on The Wire’s outreach work and directed Baltimore Rising, an HBO documentary about tensions between police and activists after the killing of Freddie Gray in 2015. “I believe that, although hope dies every day on the streets of Baltimore, Chicago, Afghanistan or wherever, hope lives in these very same places,” she says. What’s more, The Wire rewrote the rules of television drama with regard to tone, subject matter and narrative scope. The show that was once a tough sell is now both a benchmark of quality and a social document that is taught in universities. “When I saw the conversation that was initiated by The Wire, in all walks of life, it made me feel that people don’t want to be dumbed down,” says Peters. “They want something that’s going to challenge their intellect, make them feel alive, give them issues to debate. I didn’t see the whole series until about five years ago. I sat down and binged and said: ‘Oh my God, is that what I was a part of? Thank you, Lord.’” “The Wire deals with every element of society, from the lowest of the low to the highest of the high,” says Faison. “Sometimes the ‘good’ people are not so good and sometimes the ‘bad’ people are striving to be good. It was something a great deal of people could identify with. We never pulled back. We met everything head on and dealt with the truth.” That fundamental truth, which explains why The Wire illuminates the era of Trump and Black Lives Matter just as it spoke to Hurricane Katrina and the financial crisis, was best summed up by Simon in a 2007 interview with Nick Hornby. “This is part of the country you have made,” he said. “This, too, is who we are and what we have built. Think again, motherfuckers.”
1 FGENF P80.00 -21.95% 2 JAS P4.48 -14.50% 3 HVN P250.00 -8.76% 4 RCI P2.47 -7.14% 5 SGP P500.00 -6.54% 6 MAH P2.62 -6.43% 7 FGENG P100.10 -5.57% 8 ECP P19.22 -5.55% 9 CEB P72.00 -4.26% 10 CDC P0.90 -4.26% 11 MAHB P2.70 -4.26% 12 RLC P18.50 -4.24% 13 JFC P259.60 -4.21% 14 IMI P13.90 -4.14% 15 APO P0.95 -4.04% 16 JGS P49.20 -4.00% 17 AP P34.25 -3.93% 18 FGEN P14.30 -3.90% 19 ORE P1.25 -3.85% 20 PHN P7.50 -3.72% 21 MEG P4.25 -3.63% 22 SMPH P34.25 -3.52% 23 HLCM P7.05 -3.42% 24 LTG P18.08 -3.32% 25 DMC P10.54 -3.30% 26 EW P14.14 -3.02% 27 MPI P4.50 -3.02% 28 IS P0.135 -2.88% 29 AEV P54.00 -2.70% 30 SM P851.50 -2.69% 31 PRMX P2.90 -2.68% 32 FDC P7.01 -2.64% 33 PA P0.038 -2.56% 34 ARA P1.96 -2.49% 35 GLO P1,507.00 -2.46% 36 SEVN P120.00 -2.44% 37 TUGS P3.24 -2.41% 38 SBS P8.15 -2.40% 39 TBGI P0.41 -2.38% 40 ROX P3.32 -2.35% 41 PLC P0.85 -2.30% 42 SMC2F P76.50 -2.17% 43 NOW P9.50 -2.16% 44 RRHI P77.80 -2.14% 45 CROWN P1.85 -2.12% 46 FLI P1.41 -2.08% 47 CLI P4.56 -1.94% 48 NRCP P1.04 -1.89% 49 LIHC P0.53 -1.85% 50 BHI P0.053 -1.85% 51 MFC P830.00 -1.78% 52 CPM P1.68 -1.75% 53 ACR P1.15 -1.71% 54 MHC P0.58 -1.69% 55 MWIDE P19.96 -1.67% 56 COSCO P6.10 -1.61% 57 SSP P1.83 -1.61% 58 VLL P6.15 -1.60% 59 ALI P37.00 -1.60% 60 POPI P2.62 -1.50% 61 BPI P88.70 -1.44% 62 FMETF P106.00 -1.40% 63 APX P1.44 -1.37% 64 TECH P48.15 -1.33% 65 2GO P15.00 -1.32% 66 ALCO P0.76 -1.30% 67 CNPF P15.80 -1.25% 68 BSC P0.24 -1.23% 69 WIN P0.247 -1.20% 70 IDC P5.06 -1.17% 71 LMG P5.10 -1.16% 72 CPG P0.425 -1.16% 73 FERRO P3.54 -1.12% 74 MBC P17.76 -1.11% 75 APC P0.445 -1.11% 76 RLT P0.48 -1.03% 77 BLOOM P9.60 -1.03% 78 ICT P77.20 -1.03% 79 BRN P0.99 -1.00% 80 ABS P25.15 -0.98% 81 LSC P1.02 -0.97% 82 SMC2E P75.30 -0.92% 83 PIP P2.20 -0.90% 84 ION P2.22 -0.89% 85 DDPR P100.70 -0.89% 86 EAGLE P15.80 -0.88% 87 PRIM P1.18 -0.84% 88 MAC P24.05 -0.82% 89 LPZ P3.72 -0.80% 90 PAX P3.74 -0.80% 91 LCB P0.127 -0.78% 92 GSMI P21.15 -0.70% 93 PNX P11.92 -0.67% 94 SMC2I P76.00 -0.65% 95 COL P16.50 -0.60% 96 AC P905.00 -0.55% 97 GEO P0.188 -0.53% 98 AT P4.08 -0.49% 99 PX P4.48 -0.44% 100 UBP P87.05 -0.40% 101 WEB P5.17 -0.39% 102 LOTO P11.06 -0.36% 103 BEL P3.17 -0.31% 104 RFM P4.55 -0.22% 105 ABSP P24.20 -0.21% 106 DD P24.40 -0.20% 107 GMAP P5.14 -0.19% 108 MER P344.20 -0.17% 109 PPC P5.80 -0.17% 110 AGI P11.60 -0.17% 111 SCC P30.05 -0.17% 112 FPH P61.20 -0.16% 113 URC P118.90 -0.08% 114 SGI P1.57 0.00% 115 SUN P0.75 0.00% 116 ROCK P2.03 0.00% 117 SMC2B P76.30 0.00% 118 STI P1.13 0.00% 119 SFI P0.126 0.00% 120 GMA7 P5.40 0.00% 121 GPH P11.32 0.00% 122 STR P7.21 0.00% 123 AUB P59.50 0.00% 124 WPI P0.78 0.00% 125 PSE P200.00 0.00% 126 EDC P5.22 0.00% 127 CEI P0.208 0.00% 128 CIC P57.10 0.00% 129 LRP P1.04 0.00% 130 FFI P8.65 0.00% 131 MACAY P16.18 0.00% 132 JOH P5.50 0.00% 133 OPMB P0.012 0.00% 134 OPM P0.011 0.00% 135 MAXS P11.12 0.00% 136 OM P0.51 0.00% 137 ACPB2 P505.00 0.00% 138 MRC P0.58 0.00% 139 PAL P8.65 0.00% 140 MJC P4.10 0.00% 141 ATN P0.62 0.00% 142 MA P0.008 0.00% 143 SPM P2.55 0.00% 144 LC P0.129 0.00% 145 IPM P8.00 0.00% 146 PNX3A P102.80 0.00% 147 ELI P0.61 0.00% 148 IPO P12.90 0.00% 149 HI P6.00 0.00% 150 PBC P20.00 0.00% 151 SECB P200.00 0.00% 152 APL P0.043 0.00% 153 PIZZA P12.50 0.00% 154 MWP P103.00 0.00% 155 FOOD P0.58 0.00% 156 CHIB P33.55 0.00% 157 CLC P7.21 0.00% 158 CYBR P0.395 0.00% 159 AR P0.003 0.00% 1 JFC 1,761,980 2 ALI 9,486,600 3 SMPH 9,315,500 4 BDO 2,002,900 5 AEV 4,321,450 6 GTCAP 257,350 7 AC 244,010 8 SM 256,510 9 SECB 921,340 10 MBT 2,514,910 11 BPI 1,820,400 12 TEL 120,595 13 ICT 1,873,570 14 MER 341,730 15 JGS 2,124,510 16 RRHI 1,282,350 17 URC 775,280 18 AGI 7,517,600 19 MEG 18,233,000 20 ISM 30,009,000 21 DD 3,061,100 22 LTG 3,679,200 23 AP 1,647,000 24 DMC 5,145,500 25 MPI 11,991,000 26 VLL 7,923,000 27 EDC 7,946,500 28 GLO 27,505 29 VITA 15,608,000 30 NOW 4,248,600 31 BLOOM 4,167,900 32 WLCON 3,322,600 33 RLC 1,937,000 34 PNB 710,400 35 SCC 1,092,500 36 MRP 6,168,200 37 DNL 3,056,500 38 UBP 350,160 39 RWM 6,265,000 40 CEB 421,800 41 ORE 22,727,000 42 MWIDE 1,405,000 43 SMC 200,320 44 IRC 19,445,000 45 VUL 16,799,000 46 PGOLD 559,400 47 PIZZA 2,037,200 48 MWC 878,900 49 IMI 1,708,100 50 TECH 474,600 51 CIC 399,960 52 STR 3,011,300 53 FB 341,550 54 SMC2B 237,220 55 ANI 1,113,200 56 SLI 12,547,000 57 FLI 9,861,000 58 FGEN 923,300 59 CHIB 339,000 60 RCI 4,595,000 61 EEI 959,900 62 EW 749,600 63 PXP 957,600 64 PPG 3,543,000 65 MAH 3,838,000 66 JAS 2,004,600 67 HVN 33,230 68 FNI 3,094,000 69 MRC 11,571,000 70 CLC 840,300 71 BSC 23,400,000 72 EAGLE 353,100 73 PCOR 622,500 74 X 1,622,000 75 MAC 206,600 76 BRN 4,813,000 77 PRMX 1,446,000 78 NI 3,085,000 79 SSI 2,197,000 80 CLI 863,000 81 ABSP 161,600 82 ABS 150,900 83 FPH 61,320 84 CHP 1,154,000 85 LPZ 848,000 86 CNPF 199,600 87 SMC2I 41,050 88 NIKL 616,000 89 ECP 142,000 90 HOUSE 313,800 91 SHLPH 44,170 92 ANS 370,100 93 JOH 399,900 94 MARC 1,252,000 95 FGENG 19,300 96 IS 12,880,000 97 COSCO 278,600 98 ION 726,000 99 ABG 62,900 100 APX 1,019,000 101 PAX 389,000 102 PHEN 1,134,000 103 PLC 1,634,000 104 DDPR 13,480 105 GMA7 251,100 106 IDC 263,600 107 RCB 46,800 108 CPM 785,000 109 TFHI 4,780 110 LIHC 2,137,000 111 LR 258,000 112 PHN 128,300 113 SMC2G 12,490 114 TUGS 286,000 115 POPI 348,000 116 WIN 3,670,000 117 TBGI 2,170,000 118 MAXS 79,200 119 FMETF 8,290 120 BEL 275,000 121 BHI 16,420,000 122 PHES 1,880,000 123 WPI 1,041,000 124 EMP 111,800 125 FGENF 10,000 126 WEB 138,400 127 ACR 609,000 128 OV 56,100,000 129 GMAP 122,800 130 HLCM 89,400 131 ROCK 304,000 132 SBS 75,200 133 GERI 464,000 134 CPG 1,240,000 135 CAT 22,900 136 PX 114,000 137 FBP2 500 138 PSE 2,350 139 PIP 212,000 140 MHC 716,000 141 ABA 1,630,000 142 PNX 31,600 143 DIZ 46,700 144 NRCP 331,000 145 ATN 514,000 146 PRIM 265,000 147 CDC 346,000 148 AR 115,000,000 149 STI 260,000 150 SPC 56,000 151 LRW 120,000 152 AB 12,800 153 REG 88,000 154 APC 590,000 155 LMG 50,400 156 AUB 4,100 157 PMPC 33,700 158 MRSGI 90,000 159 CEI 1,100,000 160 FFI 25,000 161 ALCO 279,000 162 MWP 2,000 163 DFNN 27,100 164 CROWN 102,000 165 MAHB 67,000 166 OM 326,000 167 SMC2F 2,170 168 LRP 152,000 169 ATI 12,000 170 ACPB2 300 171 SMC2E 2,000 172 MFC 180 173 FJP 31,000 174 2GO 9,400 175 SMC2C 1,740 176 PHA 390,000 177 LSC 131,000 178 PERC 31,000 179 PA 3,300,000 180 PNX3A 1,200 181 PBB 9,900 182 SSP 64,000 183 RLT 230,000 184 PRF2B 100 185 MED 197,000 186 SLF 55 187 FDC 14,900 188 MA 13,000,000 189 ARA 53,000 190 ZHI 460,000 191 PPC 17,700 192 AT 21,000 193 OPMB 7,000,000 194 GSMI 3,900 195 PTC 720 196 LOTO 7,000 197 SHNG 24,000 198 ELI 112,000 199 SMC2H 800 200 LC 470,000 201 MJC 14,000 202 ROX 17,000 203 BKR 35,000 204 FOOD 83,000 205 COAL 150,000 206 RFM 9,000 207 IPM 5,000 208 MBC 2,200 209 SGI 24,000 210 HI 6,100 211 MVC 11,000 212 COL 2,200 213 ALHI 2,400 214 FERRO 9,000 215 SUN 39,000 216 KPH 4,300 217 LBC 1,500 218 LCB 160,000 219 SGP 40 220 MG 100,000 221 APO 19,000 222 APL 400,000 223 GEO 90,000 224 CYBR 40,000 225 OPM 1,300,000 226 KPHB 1,700 227 PBC 500 228 SFI 50,000 229 CHI 900 230 PAL 600 231 SPM 2,000 232 MACAY 300 233 SEVN 30 234 EVER 20,000 235 GPH 200 236 ATNB 3,000 237 IPO 100 238 CA 20 239 T 1,000 I’ve never heard of beer appreciation. Wine tasting and appreciation, sure, and maybe figuring out the nuances between different cocktails, or the finer flavors of scotch and whiskey. But beer? I thought I’ve learned everything there is to know about it from all the nights I’ve spent drinking with my barkada at a bar in BGC. Well, I was proven wrong when I attended a Beer Appreciation 101 event in Pasig, where local microbrewer Monkey Eagle served us their craft beers paired with dishes specially prepared by Privatus Private Dining chef and co-owner AJ Reyes. “There’s a culture behind drinking,” said Ricardo “Rich” Lopa III, head of marketing and sales for Monkey Eagle Brewery. “I’m sure all of you can see the trend. It’s no longer just about drinking, now you enjoy your gin tonics, you enjoy your whiskey, you don’t just buy anything off the shelf. That’s what we try to bring with craft beer. We want people to know there’s a whole world of beer out there, and we try to make those quality craft beers.” It all begins with the brewing, using the four most common ingredients to make beer—malt, hops, yeast, and water. When it comes to craft beer, it’s all about how these four ingredients mix to produce a wide range of tastes, from bitter to sweet and to bitter-sweet, as well as how much alcohol content a beer would have. Right now, Monkey Eagle’s craft beers come in four types, and each was paired with a dish Chef AJ concocted after tasting the beers. All Monkey Eagles’ four beers are ales, which means that they were fermented for a shorter period of time compared to lagers, the other kind of beer. There’s the Saison Farmhouse Ale, served with Pork and Salmon Sinuglaw, which is Privatus’ version of the Filipino-Western ceviche of grilled pork and salmon belly tossed in picked vegetables, topped with pork and salmon crackling. It’s a combination that brought out the Saison’s robust flavor with a hint of fruitiness. Incidentally, the Saison is also Monkey Eagle’s most popular craft beer, their signature ale inspired by the original farmhouse ales of Belgium. Next came the Blue Wheat American Pale Wheat Ale, a medium-bodied ale with a moderate hop bitterness and a little bit of fruitiness, making it an easy-drinking brew and a perfect pair for Chef AJ’s baked oysters, a Privatus classic dish of decadent baked Aklan oysters generously drizzled with luscious cheese. The third combo featured the Burning Matt Pale Ale, named after an American brewer who helped setup Monkey Eagle’s first brewery and who was a fan of the annual Burning Man festival at Black Rock City, a temporary city setup in the Black Rock Desert of northwest Nevada. A smooth and tasty beer with a citrusy hop aroma and maltness, the Burning Matt paired perfectly with Privatus’ Radical Wagyu Sliders—grilled local wagyu patty topped with rich, flavorful crab fat sauce served inside artisanal squid ink buns. Next, we were treated to a delicious pairing of Potion 28 India Pale Ale and Pickled Smoked Quail Eggs. This is my personal favorite, as the bitterness of the Potion 28 and its intense hop flavor coupled with a toasty malt presence in a medium-dry finish mixed fantastically with every bite of the smoky quail egg. You should try drinking the Potion 28 and then taking a sip of the sweet and sour brine the egg was aged in. You’d be in for a delightful treat, perfect for beers at lunch. It’s interesting how Chef AJ came up with the dishes for each of the ales. His goal, he said, after trying out each of the craft beer, was to bring out the unique flavors of each one, while also retaining or even highlighting the taste of each dish. In the middle of it all, we were reminded that there’s no right or wrong way of enjoying beer. You can gulp down the beers first and then take a bite of the dishes or you can do it the other way around. Just make sure you take more than just a sip of the craft beer, Monkey Eagle Brewery co-founder Noreen Lao told us. Unlike wine, beer isn’t meant to be taken in sips, she says, nor are you supposed to let it linger in your mouth longer than necessary. You enjoy the taste as you gulp it down. Overall, having sampled Monkey Eagle’s craft beers and tasted Chef AJ’s delightful dishes, I could say that there is indeed more to beer drinking than just, well, drinking. And trying out locally-made craft beers is an interesting way of getting acquainted with this beer-drinking culture. “Many people have a limited knowledge and understanding of craft beer and how it differs from commercial beers,” Rich said. “Through Beer Appreciation 101, we can reach out to people by educating them on the basics of craft beer, the brewing process, the different beer styles, and how each differs in taste, recipe, and the brewing process. We also want to change the notion that craft beers are stronger, more bitter, and more expensive versus commercial beers.” As a final surprise, Monkey Eagle gave us a taste of a new brew they’re currently working on, which Chef AJ paired with a deluxe dessert from Privatus. I’m not going to spoil the surprise here, but I am going to tell you that this new brew reminded me of a local commercial beer favorite. You should go and check out the next Beer Appreciation 101 sessions happening on July 7 and 28, 5 p.m., at the Privatus Private Dining in #8 F. Legaspi Street, Barangay Maybunga, Pasig.
Since the beginning of the year, Nigeria has been gripped by an outbreak of a deadly disease. Lassa fever is one of a number of illnesses which can cause dangerous epidemics, but for which no vaccine currently exists. Lassa fever is not a new disease, but the current outbreak is unprecedented, spreading faster and further than ever before. Health workers are overstretched, and a number have themselves become infected and died. The potentially fatal disease is a so-called "viral haemorrhagic fever", which can affect many organs, and damage the body's blood vessels. But it is difficult to treat. Most people who catch Lassa will have only mild symptoms such as fever, headache and general weakness. They may have none at all. However, in severe cases, it can mimic another deadly haemorrhagic fever, Ebola, causing bleeding through the nose, mouth and other parts of the body. Lassa fever normally has a fatality rate of about one per cent. But in the Nigerian outbreak it is thought to be more than 20% among confirmed and probable cases, according to the country's Centre for Disease Control. About 90 people are thought to have died so far, but the true number may be much higher, because Lassa is so hard to diagnose. Women who contract the disease late in pregnancy face an 80% chance of losing their child, or dying themselves. In the early stages it's almost impossible to distinguish from other common diseases like malaria and dengue. With no readily available test, the only way to confirm a diagnosis is to analyse a blood or tissue sample in one of small number of specialised laboratories. The disease was first identified in the Nigerian town of Lassa in 1969, after an outbreak in a mission hospital. It has since been seen in many West African countries including Ghana, Mali and Sierra Leone. However, this outbreak is causing particular concern because the number of cases is unusually high for the time of year. Health officials are working to understand why. Outbreaks can be influenced by seasonal weather conditions, which affect the numbers of the virus's natural host - the multimammate rat. These small mammals are common across West Africa, where they easily find their way into homes. Another possibility is that the high number of cases reflects heightened public awareness. Or it's possible that something about the virus has changed. Most people catch Lassa fever from anything contaminated with rat urine, faeces, blood or saliva - through eating, drinking or simply handling contaminated objects in the home. It can also pass from person to person through bodily fluids, meaning healthcare workers and people taking care of sick relatives without protective equipment are particularly at risk. The incubation period for Lassa is up to three weeks. Researchers are trying to work out whether - like Ebola - Lassa can stay in the body and be passed on through sexual contact even after illness subsides. Nigeria has a strong public health system, and is used to dealing with epidemics like this. The World Health Organization (WHO) is working with Nigerian authorities to help coordinate the response and the UK government has deployed a team of experts from its Public Health Rapid Support Team. Those living in affected areas are being advised to take basic precautions: blocking holes that may allow rats to enter their homes, disposing of rubbish in covered dustbins, and storing food and water in sealed containers. People are advised to wear protective gloves when caring for anyone who may have Lassa fever, and to carry out safe burial practices. Despite these measures, the fight against Lassa - and other infectious diseases - is hampered by a lack of effective medical tools like diagnostic tests, treatments and vaccines. It is likely that a vaccine could be found for Lassa - reducing the possibility of an outbreak becoming a global health emergency - but as with other epidemic diseases that mainly affect poorer countries, progress has stalled. Vaccine development is a long, complex and costly process. This is especially true for emerging epidemic diseases, where a prototype vaccine can usually only be tested where there is an outbreak. A new organisation called CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) - set up in 2017 with financial support from the Wellcome Trust, national governments and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation - hopes to accelerate vaccine production. Lassa is one of the diseases on its hit list and it's hoped one or more promising vaccines will be ready for large-scale testing in the next five years. The WHO has drawn up a list of other serious, but often poorly understood diseases, with the potential for devastating outbreaks, including MERS, Nipah, Rift Valley Fever and, of course, Ebola. It plans to highlight gaps in our knowledge of these diseases and to begin further research. But research alone isn't enough. Stronger health systems are needed in the countries where epidemics are most likely to arise. This could mean building better healthcare facilities and training staff to recognise and respond to outbreaks. It will also mean working with communities to understand how to identify outbreaks at an early stage and prevent their spread. About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation. Dr Charlie Weller is head of vaccines at the Wellcome Trust, which describes itself as a global charitable foundation working to improve health for everyone. Follow her at @DrCharlieWeller. Edited by Jennifer Clarke.
AS WE went to press, the cabinet was due to enter an extended session in order to hammer out what kind of Brexit is best for Britain. Ministers are at loggerheads over the relationship the country should have with the European Union. Time is short. With just over a year until Britain leaves the EU, leaders of the 27 other member states, who will meet in March, are frustrated. Britons on both sides of the Leave/Remain divide need to plan ahead. All they get is blather and contradictions. The government is groping towards a “hard” Brexit, leaving both the single market and customs union. The prime minister, Theresa May, seems to believe that this is the only way to honour the result of the referendum. On that view, a “soft” exit, into an arrangement closer to that of Norway, is unacceptable because it fails to secure the independence of the courts, the freedom to strike new trade deals and the ability to limit immigration. It would render Britain a “vassal state” that, to add insult to injury, would have to pay the EU a vast annual levy. Yet a closer look at Norway shows that this depiction of a soft Brexit is simply wrong. Mrs May is right to say that Britain will end up with its own model rather than copying anyone else’s. But instead of ignoring other countries, she should learn from them. And Norway, it turns out, is a good place to start. Think again In 1994 Norwegians voted against joining the EU, by the same narrow margin as Britain chose to leave it in 2016. Whereas the debate in Britain has been dominated by hardliners, Norwegians took that as a cue to compromise (see article). Their country is outside the EU, but inside the single market, allowing it to trade freely with the continent. For Britain, by the government’s estimate, leaving the single market would mean that GDP 15 years after Brexit would be 3-6% lower than if it stayed in it. (Brexiteers counter this with rosy predictions for a hard Brexit, but their models are based on far-fetched assumptions, such as the total abolition of tariffs.) Norway set up carve-outs to keep control over areas it prized, such as farming and fishing. It agreed to follow most other EU rules, open its borders to EU migrants and make hefty annual payments. How does that square with Leavers’ demands? Start with the money. Per person, Norway’s contributions to the EU are about three-quarters of what Britain pays now. Rather than going into the central EU budget, most of the cash is tied to particular research or educational programmes, such as the Erasmus student exchanges, or sent to poorer countries in the form of grants that are controlled by Norway, not the EU. A country with $1trn in oil wealth may shrug off such payments more easily than one grappling with a budget deficit. But Britain has already said that it will pay for access to the single market and take part in specific programmes. Next come EU laws. Mrs May has said Britain must escape the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice (ECJ). Norway’s trade with Europe is instead governed by the court of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). As a matter of principle, the EFTA court’s rulings are advisory, and it lacks the power to fine member states that do not comply. Britain could expect to nominate a judge to the court, which it could not to the ECJ. As a matter of practicality, British exporters will have to follow the rules of the single market even if they are not in it. More important, Norway is not the “vassal state” that Brexiteers claim. It is involved in drawing up EU laws and regulations, particularly in areas such as energy, where it knows the ropes. It has no seat in the European Parliament or Council, but most regulations are passed without a formal vote. Instead they are negotiated in committees where what counts is expertise and knowledge. Both Norway and Switzerland wield influence in Brussels. Britain’s clout would be greater still, especially in areas that matter to it, like finance. It is the same with free movement of people. At least in theory, Norway might be allowed an emergency brake against a sudden upsurge in migration. In practice Britain could anyway take measures that are available under EU rules, such as restricting property purchases or expelling those who have not found a job after six months. Net migration to Britain is falling and worry about immigrants is subsiding. A majority of all voters, including a third of those who voted to leave, would accept free movement in return for free trade. In one area, however, Britain would need a closer arrangement. Norway is not part of a customs union with the EU, so vehicles crossing at the border with Sweden and Finland are subject to checks. This would not suit Britain. Its borders are busier than Norway’s and its firms more integrated into European supply chains. Worse, customs controls in Northern Ireland would jeopardise the peace process, and hence the security of both British and Irish citizens. The government has ruled out a customs union with the EU, claiming it would preclude signing trade deals with third countries. That, too, is wrong-headed. The customs union applies only to goods; Britain would still be free to strike deals in services, which the government says is the priority in a longed-for deal with America. A final benefit is choice. Britain is leaving just as the EU is becoming a looser union of countries moving at different speeds. Euro-zone members are heading for closer integration; others outside it hang back. In a multi-speed Europe, being in the single market and the customs union would put Britain in an outer lane, rather than forcing it off the road altogether. Later, it could move closer or farther away, as it wished. To hardliners, who want out at any cost, this flexibility is dangerous. To pragmatists who accept that the future is uncertain, it is valuable. And think a third time A regime akin to Norway’s, fortified by a customs agreement, does not honour every promise made in the heat of the Brexit campaign. We know of no deal that could. But it would mean doing what Britain voted for: leaving the EU. This newspaper argued against that course. Now that the country is set on it, it needs a proven, workable model for being out of Europe’s political project but in its economy. Norway would be a good place to start.
The last time investors’ inflation expectations rose as much and fast as they have recently was in the final months of 2016, thanks in large part to the unexpected election of U.S. President Donald Trump. After retreating in mid-2017, so-called breakevens -- which measure the yield spread between nominal and inflation-linked Treasuries -- have jumped again, to even higher levels than before. But according to results out Thursday from a Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey of some of the biggest macro hedge funds and other asset managers on Wall Street, that probably reflects less of a likelihood than before that price gains will get out of control. The New York Fed surveys funds on what range of inflation they expect over the longer term. In 2016, when actual inflation was rising, the survey results showed a big rise in the perceived probability that, between five and 10 years ahead, inflation would average 2.5 percent or more. This time around, that’s not the case. That probability fell last month to match the lowest level in almost two years. Now, respondents mainly expect just a slight overshoot of the Fed’s 2 percent inflation target -- between 2 and 2.5 percent. That probability jumped in January to 33 percent, the highest since before the Fed began raising rates in December 2015. One caveat: The New York Fed’s latest Survey of Market Participants was conducted Jan. 18-22, before reports that showed wages and inflation in January surpassed economists’ projections.
Cyberwar may not feel like "real" war — the kind we've known and loathed for eons and the very same we perversely reenact in video games. But some military and legal experts say cyberwar is as real as it gets. David Petraeus, a retired US General and (some say disgraced) former intelligence chief says the internet has created an entirely distinct domain of warfare, one which he calls "netwar." And that's the kind being waged by terrorists. Then there's another kind, and technically any hacker with enough computer skills can do it — whatever the motivation. This kind takes out electricity grids, or jams emergency phone lines with fake calls powered by artificial intelligence and machine learning technology. As far as UK Attorney General Jeremy Wright is concerned, there should be no difference in the way those attacks are treated, compared to physical attacks, by international law. "If it would be a breach of international law to bomb an air traffic control tower with the effect of downing civilian aircraft, then it will be a breach of international law to use a hostile cyber operation to disable air traffic control systems which results in the same, ultimately lethal, effects," said Wright in a speech at London-based think tank Chatham House on Wednesday. The same goes for cyber attacks on nuclear reactors and medical facilities, said Wright, and these are "no less unlawful and no less deserving of a robust and legitimate response when they are undertaken by cyber means than when they are done by any other means." Read more: FBI thwarts potential cyberattack on Ukraine Multi-pronged problem The problem, however, is at least two-fold. First, "there are few areas in which the world has moved faster than in the development of cyber technology," said Wright. And one of the biggest challenges for international law — as well as government and society as a whole — is keeping pace. We are too focused on the idea of war with guns, tanks and bombs. "When people talk of a cyberattack they often refer to espionage activities and other breaches of confidentiality, while an attack in the context of international law means a use of force or an armed attack, which effectively means death and destruction," said Alexander Klimburg, author of 'The Darkening Web — The War for Cyberspace' in an interview with DW. An initial cyber attack needn't cause death or destruction. However, it may lead to that, for instance, through a critical mass of misinformation — whether it's automatically produced by online bots or vague truths and vague lies spread by state actors. It's what Klimburg calls the "weaponization of information." And that brings us to the second problem: cyber space is an entirely new theater of war. "Cyberspace is effectively a completely artificial fifth domain that has been added to air, land, sea and space," says Klimburg. It's often compared with nuclear energy or chemicals. Both can be used for good and bad, and yet we seem to have landed on a kind of ethical and legal footing for their use. Chemicals for medicine = good. Chemicals for warfare = bad. But the internet is different. It is everywhere. It is used everywhere. And so its promise and threat are everywhere too. As Wright puts it: "Even those not online themselves are using public or private sector services whose operations depend on interconnectivity via cyberspace." Now for number three The third prong will hurt the worst, possibly because we've already lost control over it. And that's artificial intelligence (AI) and/or machine learning (ML). AI or ML will have a deeper impact on our lives than cyberspace itself, certainly in the area of misinformation through fake content like photos, videos, and audio. These automated, self-training technologies may hold a lot of promise for medicine and other facets of research. But they also threaten to demolish all human trust — perhaps in the most unsuspected areas of life. Take for example the social media trend of deep fake porn, a particularly heinous abuse of any technology. And while our digital lives are overwhelmingly visual, fake audio is an issue as well. "I think [audio manipulation] is as big a threat as that of video," said Shahar Avin, a research associate at the Center for Existential Risk at Cambridge University in the UK. In February, Avin co-published "The Malicious Use of Artificial Intelligence," a report written by 26 authors from 14 institutions in academia, civil society and industry, including OpenAI and the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Avin says it's the same kind of deep neural network technology that's used to scan for patterns in images that can also be used in audio. As with nuclear and chemicals, AI can be used for good and bad — you can scan for patterns to find and remove child abuse images online, just as much as you can paste the face of a famous actor onto the body of a porn star. You choose. Or, indeed, we all do, as every human interaction with AI feeds an ever expanding universe of automation. But what if you don't get a chance to choose? What if you don't realize you have a choice? What, for instance, if you can't tell whether the person on the other end of your phone line is your bank manager, or in fact some automated audio forgery? The choice of "hang up or keep talking" wouldn't even occur to you. "AI can be used to falsify audio evidence and get people sent to jail, or have disagreements about contracts," Avin told DW. "And another thing we don't think about much is our ability to have a real-world denial of service." What's a Distributed Denial of Service, or DDoS, attack? "I can hack into a bunch of computers and have them all send packets [of information] to some website, and if the website does not have sufficient defenses, it will go down," Avin explained. In one of the most recent cases, a DDoS attack took down GitHub — a platform for coders — albeit, for less than 10 minutes. That was taken as a sign of the increasing sophistication of DDoS attacks and that of website defenses. GitHub is an open repository for computer code, so the damage was somewhat limited. But just think what a DDoS attack could do to a commercial competitor of yours (not that we advise that). Or if it's a government website, a DDoS could be considered a "low-intensity attack," and that's getting awfully close to an act of war. "Now imagine I have these computers call your phone from different numbers that I've bought, and they all sound like people. You would have no way of telling which are genuine people trying to call you and which are bots. So, effectively, I have disabled your phone line," says Avin. It may not sound so bad. We've all left home without our phones. But let's say you rely on your phone line — say you're an emergency service — and, more to the point, you rely on true audio information. That would be bad. Someone could create a 100 percent fake radio interview and have a state leader 'say' something to annoy or insult another leader — who wouldn't know it was all a set-up. If that happened it would be a mere hop to a Franz Ferdinand style outbreak of war. "Sentiments can be seen as a cause of war: Things like 'you hurt my feelings' or 'you insult my president and I attack you,'" Klimburg said. "That is extremely worrying because at the end of the day, if that happens, there is no such thing as free speech, and there's no such thing as democracy." Where we're headed So if it's a question of democracy, how do we defend it? Especially as … sorry … there's a fourth prong. And that's the thorny issue of knowing exactly who just attacked you. Even if you can recognize a cyber attack as an act of misinformation — and you've spotted the fake — you may not be able to attribute blame, because the lines between the actions of governments and those of individuals are starting to blur. In his Chatham House speech, Wright said this was one of the biggest challenges for international law: "Without clearly identifying who is responsible for hostile cyber activity, it is impossible to take responsible action in response." As it stands, the law "requires a state to bear responsibility […] These principles must be adapted," said Wright, "and applied to a densely technical world of electronic signatures, hard to trace networks and the dark web." When it comes to artificial intelligence and fakery on the web, some swear by using AI to root out bad content generated by AI. So, we fight fire with fire. But Avin says that's "only a transitory solution." "You can get to the point where — pixel to pixel or waveform to waveform — there is just no difference, there is no statistical difference between the real world and the forgery," says Avin, "even when you take context into account, and if that were the case, then an AI won't help you because there's no pattern for it to detect." At that point, says Avin, you need to move to cryptographic measures for guaranteeing the authenticity and the source of photos, for example, "and that means we need different hardware out there and different international standards." When the age of quantum computing finally alights on Earth, dynamics may change yet again — for better and worse. Quantum computers will be so much faster and many times more powerful than today's technology. "So while it will be possible to conduct ever more realistic fakes," says Klimburg, "through the processing power and the mathematical computing, the new AI algorithms will have a higher ability to identify these [fakes] as well." It begs the question whether scaling up our technologies is always the right way. If faster computing means you can improve your chances of fighting "cyber wrongs," but at the same time those wrongs can also be unleashed at a greater rate, what's the point? "In some cases, the right thing is just not to develop, where there is a clear consensus that there is going to be more bad than good," says Avin. But then, he says, that can give rise to technology races between nations and other actors. "One community might decide they're not going to use a particular technology, but if that puts them at a disadvantage to everyone else, that puts them under quite a lot of pressure," says Avin. "So it's not always a compelling argument to say, 'If we don'T do it, it'll definitely be developed elsewhere,' but sometimes it's the dynamic that emerges." And that's something we as a global, digital society "need to deal with."
Candy hearts — hate 'em or like 'em for some apparent reason — they're part of the fabric of American life. That chapter of our candy history may soon be coming to a close, according to The Boston Globe. Necco, the company that produces the candies, formally called Sweethearts, is reportedly in financial trouble and may have to fire up to 395 employees if they don't find a buyer soon. Those employees make up the vast majority of Necco's workforce. Even if you don't like candy hearts, Necco, it should be noted, produces more than the chalky candy. They're also responsible for some of the weirdest candy found in your Trick-Or-Treat bags, including Mary Janes, Candy Buttons, Mighty Malts, Necco Wafers, and Banana Split chews. The company will effectively close their Revere, Massachusetts plant by May 6 unless a buyer steps up. Candy heart lovers of the world, now is your time to step up. Valentine's Day would not be the same without these chalky, dusty candies we all love to complain about.
ANTIOCH — Eight siblings and five nieces are gathering to mourn the loss of their sister and her daughter who were fatally shot early Thursday morning in western Antioch. Close to 4:30 a.m. on Thursday morning, shots rang out in the 4400 block of Delta Fair Boulevard. When officers arrived, two women were found with gunshot wounds. The Contra Costa County Coroner’s Office has confirmed that both women succumbed to their injuries. Antioch police are investigating the shooting, but had not identified any suspects as of Friday afternoon. Valinda Rose Scott, 55, and her daughter, Milan Ardoin, 28, were tragically taken from the Scott family that day, according to family. Scott was taken by ambulance to a hospital but later succumbed. “It’s like a dream. It doesn’t seem real,” said Faye Colvin, older sister to Rose Scott and aunt to Milan Ardoin. “When I heard, I was praying so hard for one to make it and asked God to please spare one.” Scott was the youngest of nine children and Ardoin was one of six nieces in a family that spanned the country, but always came together for support and reunions. “We’re all a real close family. Rose, she was always so friendly and funny. When we were young, my mother would say ‘you always laugh a lot,’ but Rose, she kept us laughing,” Colvin said. In a family of eight sisters and one brother, Colvin helped their mother raise Scott and remembered teaching her her first word. One day, as the family was driving over the hills to Pittsburg, Scott looked down at the cows in the pasture and said “cat.” “I said, ‘that’s not a cat,’ but she looked at me like she was going to say ‘I know it’s a cat,'” Colvin said. When Scott’s daughter, Milan, was born, the family weaved together that support network again to take their niece out shopping while Scott was at work. Being raised by seven aunts and an uncle brought Ardoin to once remark on how many mothers she had. Ardoin went on to graduate from UCLA and was pursuing her doctorate. As she came into her own, she in turn looked after her family, telling Colvin that she shouldn’t hide an illness from them, because “we’re family and that’s what family does.” Now their family once again will gather around to support Ardoin’s 4-year-old son, Mason, who lost his mother and grandmother in one fatal morning.
A two-year-old boy and his six-year-old brother have died after a hit-and-run crash in Coventry. The toddler was killed after he was struck by a car at around 2pm on Thursday, West Midlands Police said. Man beaten up for opening train toilet door without realising woman was using it His six-year-old brother was also hit by the vehicle on MacDonald Road, Stoke, Coventry, and was taken to hospital in a critical condition. He died shortly after. A 53-year-old man and a 41-year-old woman have been arrested by police on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving after a black Ford Focus was found abandoned shortly after the incident. Both boys suffered life-threatening injuries but nothing could be done to save them. The road remained closed while emergency services investigated the scene. A local resident, who preferred not to give her name, said the aftermath of the crash included a ‘smashed’ pushchair in the road alongside a child’s scooter. ‘The police had taped the road off and there was debris all over the road,’ she said ‘I was advised not to go near as the kids were still on the road and I had my young girls. It was very sad to see and the fact they ran off and hid makes it a thousand times worse. MORE: When is the Winter Olympics closing ceremony and how to watch it? ‘I just keep thinking if my hairdresser was not late it could have been me and my girls crossing that road.’ When is Kate Middleton due and when does the Duchess go on maternity leave? Detective Sergeant Paul Hughes, from the force’s collision investigation unit, said: ‘We are still trying to establish how this tragic incident has happened and anyone who hasn’t yet spoken to an officer should call us on 101. ‘This is a parent’s worst nightmare and it’s impossible to imagine their grief, but specialist officers will be supporting them as our investigation continues.’ MORE: Where can you do curling in the UK? MORE: Radio presenter gives birth live on air during rush hour
Veteran diplomats say it could take years to assess the results of this week's nuclear summit between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Trump doesn't expect to wait that long. "I think within the first minute, I'll know," whether Kim is serious about giving up his nuclear weapons, the president told reporters Saturday. "Just my touch. My feel. That's what I do." The same impulsive confidence led Trump to accept Kim's invitation to the summit without consulting his advisers back in March. The president abruptly called off the meeting in May, only to revive it eight days later. The two leaders are finally set to meet Tuesday morning (Monday night in the U.S.) at a luxury island resort in Singapore, the climax of a diplomatic roller-coaster rivaling any at the nearby Universal Studios theme park. "Be prepared for surprises," said Victor Cha, a Korea expert who worked in the George W. Bush administration. "These two leaders certainly have a flair for the drama and the dramatic in these sorts of meetings." Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who's met twice with Kim in preparation for the summit, said he and other advisers have been briefing Trump on a near-daily basis. But the president, who sees himself as a born deal-maker, downplayed the value of such last-minute cramming. "It's going to be something that will always be spur of the moment," Trump told reporters, as he left a G-7 meeting in Canada en route to Singapore. "It's unknown territory in the truest sense. But I really feel confident. I feel that Kim Jong Un wants to do something great for his people and he has that opportunity." Analysts say Kim will check off one of his goals simply by sharing the summit stage with Trump. The first such meeting with a sitting U.S. president will help rebrand the North Korean leader from pariah to peacemaker. "Just the fact of a superficially successful summit is a big gain for him," said Richard Bush, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "He has sat across the table from the president of the United States, the superpower. That elevates his position, prestige, and power tremendously." Cracks in the sanctions campaign Cracks have also begun to appear in the "maximum pressure" campaign of economic sanctions against North Korea, even though Trump insists the U.S. won't loosen the screws until Pyongyang's nuclear program is dismantled. "As long as the summitry is going on, and Kim Jong Un is going to be invited to the United Nations and so forth, it will be very hard to get China, Russia, even South Korea back on board," said Michael Green, who oversaw Asia policy on the National Security Council in the George W. Bush administration. "The leverage will be dissipated." Brookings scholar Jung Pak agrees. "Whether we like it or not, the other countries see this as the U.S. turning the spigot back on," Pak said. The U.S. goal for the summit is straightforward: the complete, verifiable, irreversible end of North Korea's outlawed nuclear weapons program. "A perfect track record of cheating" But while Kim has made some gestures in that direction — suspending nuclear and missile tests and making a show of disabling a nuclear test facility — veteran diplomats are skeptical that North Korea will surrender its nuclear weapons altogether. "I do not know of a single U.S. official — and we talked to a lot of them — or Japanese official below the level of the president who thinks North Korea is going to denuclearize," Green said. In the 1990s and again the early 2000s, North Korea agreed to halt its nuclear program only to continue with clandestine research. With each round of diplomacy, Pyongyang's weapons grew more advanced and more dangerous. "We've had multiple deals with North Korea," Green said. "We now know they have a pretty good track record in these negotiations: a perfect track record of cheating every time." Pompeo said he's received personal assurances from Kim that North Korea is ready to denuclearize. "President Trump is hopeful, but he's also going into the summit with his eyes wide open," Pompeo told reporters. "We've seen how many inadequate agreements have been struck in the past. And you can be sure that President Trump will not stand for a bad deal." Timing and verification Timing and verification will be crucial to the success of any nuclear deal. But those details aren't likely to be worked out during this week's summit and will instead have to wait for follow-up conversations. The administration has backed away from its demand for immediate disarmament, acknowledging that a weapons program a large as North Korea's would take time to wind down. But officials still wants to see rapid movement. "This has to be big and bold," Pompeo said. "We can't step through this over years." In exchange for North Korea's cooperation, the administration is offering Kim both security guarantees and economic aid. "He'll be safe. He'll be happy. His country will be rich," Trump said last month. Analysts suggest the president may be underestimating the value that Kim's family has placed on nuclear weapons for three generations, substituting his own businessman's priorities for the North Korean leader's. "If the North Koreans wanted to be rich, they could have been rich a long time ago," Cha said. "For Kim, the nuclear weapons are part of his national identity," Pak added. "To assume that one can go in and talk about making him rich is almost antithetical, almost offensive in a way, for somebody who has achieved and completed his grandfather's goal." An end to the Korean War? The summit could also produce some sort of declaration — short of a formal treaty — about ending the Korean War, 65 years after the armistice. Eventually, that could lead to pressure from North Korea and China to withdraw many of the 28,000 American troops in South Korea. Trump, who has complained about the cost of those troops, might welcome the opportunity, though a troop withdrawal would also reinforce doubts about America's commitment to the Asia-Pacific region. The president has also promised Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, that he will press Kim for the return of Japanese citizens who have been kidnapped and held captive in North Korea. And Trump has said he may raise the issue of North Korea's dismal human rights record with Kim, although he didn't do so during a White House meeting with one of Kim's top deputies. Whatever complications may arise after the summit, both sides seem eager to stage a smiling photo of the historic handshake. "No matter what happens, President Trump and Kim Jong Un are going to call it a success," said former CIA analyst Sue Mi Terry, who's now a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Both leaders are invested in this and they want to. So the optics are going to look good." Even those who are skeptical of North Korea's intentions don't want a return to last year's open hostility, when Trump and Kim were calling each other names and boasting about their nuclear buttons. Despite Trump's confidence in his deal-making instincts, though, the ultimate outcome of the summit probably won't be known quickly. "President Trump would like to see this as a very different, bigger deal," Cha said. "Everybody else screwed it up. Now he's going to fix it." But the veteran diplomat, who was briefly considered for a post as Trump's ambassador to South Korea, warns the administration will face the same challenges and trade-offs in North Korea that its predecessors did. "We want to solve this problem. But we may be stuck managing it." Copyright 2018 NPR. To see more, visit http://www.npr.org/. STEVE INSKEEP, HOST: So the story from the White House is President Trump does not want to look weak. In particular, he does not want to look weak as a summit with North Korea's leader looms. And adviser Larry Kudlow said over the weekend that that is why Trump lashed out at Canada's prime minister. He left a trail of angry tweets as he headed for the other side of the globe, not wanting Canada to push him around on trade. Now the president is in a hotel in Singapore less than half a mile from the hotel of North Korea's Kim Jong Un. We have a team of NPR reporters covering the summit, including Scott Horsley, who covers the White House. Hey there, Scott. SCOTT HORSLEY, BYLINE: Good to be with you, Steve. INSKEEP: OK, so glad you're in Singapore. Let me just ask you, do his advisers think that the president is focused and prepared and backed by allies in the way that they want as this summit looms? HORSLEY: You know, I'm not sure there was anything so calculated about the president's lashing out at Justin Trudeau as he traveled from Canada here to Singapore. His tweets about the Canadian prime minister looked very much like the impulsive reaction of a president who was watching a news conference on television that he didn't like. He had - you know, his advisers had told reporters just hours earlier that the U.S. was going to sign on to the G-7 communique, and then President Trump abruptly reversed course as he was traveling here to Canada - from Canada here to Singapore. Whether that sort of impulsive change of direction is what you want as you try to convince North Korea that you are a reliable deal-making partner is an open question. INSKEEP: OK. So it could be that this was sort of retroactive explanation for why the president was angry. But you raise an interesting point. The United States wants North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. What the United States wants to offer in return, in broad terms, is security guarantees for North Korea. Is it clear in the minds of U.S. officials, at least, what kind of offer they can put on the table that is detailed that would show how to do that? HORSLEY: Well, you know, Kim Jong Un is already getting a lot of what he wants out of this summit. He will be sharing the summit stage with the U.S. president, the first North Korean leader to meet with a sitting U.S. president. That, all by itself, gives Kim legitimacy, a show of power. And also, even though the Trump administration insists that the policy of maximum pressure and tough economic sanctions will remain in place against North Korea, we're already seeing cracks in that sanctions regime. And it's going to be very difficult to insist that China, Russia, other countries continue to tighten the screws on North Korea at a time when the president is sitting down, meeting with Kim Jong Un and referring to that North Korean leader as very honorable. So North Korea is already getting a lot of what Kim wants. On top of that, the U.S. has said they're prepared to offer him security guarantees for his country and his regime, as well as economic aid, although the president says that economic aid would likely come from North Korea's Asian neighbors, not directly from the United States. INSKEEP: OK, so that is the circumstance as we get ready for the summit on Tuesday - Monday night of the United States, Tuesday morning in Singapore where you are. What's the scene? And where will they be meeting? HORSLEY: They're meeting at a resort hotel on Sentosa Island here in Singapore. The two leaders are staying in separate hotels, and the resort hotel is sort of a third, neutral space. The president tweeted today that there's a lot of excitement in the air. I can tell you there's certainly a lot of humidity in the air and also some last-minute diplomacy. You know, this summit has come together relatively quickly. It was less than three weeks ago that Trump had withdrawn from it. And since then, we've heard - we've seen a flurry of activity of diplomats trying to flesh out what these two leaders will be talking about tomorrow or late today, U.S. time. And those talks continued right up until this morning. INSKEEP: Scott, thanks, as always. HORSLEY: You're welcome. INSKEEP: And safe travels. NPR's Scott Horsley in Singapore. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.
When Donald Trump announced his intent to slap new tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum last week, critics were quick to point out that the biggest victims of such a move would be important allies including Canada and Mexico. In our president’s mind, however, that seems to be a feature of the plan, not a bug. Over the weekend, administration officials insisted that no countries would be spared from the new duties. And on Monday morning, Trump himself shared some insight into his strategy: In other words, POTUS seemingly wants to bludgeon Canada and Mexico into accepting changes in NAFTA by putting tariffs on one of their major exports to the U.S. This is the sort of thing that, if true, was probably best left unsaid. Trump’s tweets put the governments of Canada and Mexico in an awkward position. Before tariffs were an issue, all three countries could at least pretend they were trying to negotiate some sort of win-win compromise. Now, if our neighbors make consolations on NAFTA, it will look as if they are caving to Washington’s bullying tactics, which will almost certainly play poorly with voters back home. Maybe that’s Trump’s intention; perhaps he is trying to throw yet another wrench into the NAFTA-bargaining process in order to finally kill the pact. Or perhaps he’s thinking just the opposite; it’s possible he’s worried that the tariffs aren’t playing well enough with the public and hopes that tying them to an inevitable deal with Canada and Mexico will give him an excuse to drop the whole ill-conceived lark while still claiming victory. You can only guess with Trump. But by ostensibly resorting to blackmail, the president may be making it politically harder, not easier, to strike an accord. The president’s loose thumbs aren’t doing the administration any legal favors, either. Trump plans to impose the new tariffs under a law—Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act—that gives him broad powers over trade specifically in order to protect national security. As part of that process, the Commerce Department has produced two elaborate reports arguing that the steel and aluminum industries need to be protected for the sake of American safety and well-being. But by telling Canada that it might be able to get rid of the tariffs by letting U.S. dairy farmers sell more milk in Toronto, Trump is making a mockery of that carefully wrought legal fiction. After all, if the health of the steel and aluminum industries were actually essential to U.S. security interests, the president probably wouldn’t be willing to barter them for butter sales. This point will almost surely come up if companies sue to stop the tariffs in U.S. court. Just as importantly, it will also put the Trump administration on weaker footing before the World Trade Organization. The body’s rules allow member states to take protectionist measures for national security purposes; they do not allow members to randomly put up tariffs as a negotiating tactic. If countries want to do such a thing, they need to find a separate excuse for their actions. Trump’s trade team was hard at work on that effort. But the president is blowing their cover.
It was to be expected that Wayne LaPierre, the Executive Vice President of the National Rifle Association (NRA), would talk about guns and the importance of the Second Amendment during his speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) on Thursday. But LaPierre also fiercely criticized institutions like the FBI and the mainstream media — and did so using rhetoric that, at times, sounded a lot like President Donald Trump. In recent days, Trump has notably broken with the NRA in being open to raising the legal age to purchase certain firearms. (He played down any disagreement with the NRA during an appearance Thursday, saying: “I don’t think I’ll be going up against them. I really think the NRA wants to do what’s right.”) But there are many similarities in how Trump and LaPierre are responding to last week’s deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., particularly in their support for arming teachers in classrooms to prevent future school shootings. “Every day young children are being dropped off at schools that are virtually wide open soft targets for anyone bent on mass murder,” LaPierre said during his CPAC speech Thursday. “It should not be easier for a madman to shoot up a school than a bank or a jewelry store or some Hollywood gala. Schools must be the most hardened target in this country and evil must be confronted immediately with all necessary force to protect our kids.” LaPierre’s remarks echoed a series of tweets Trump posted just hours earlier, as well as comments he made to Florida students when they came to the White House the day before. The Florida shooting left 17 people dead and reignited America’s gun control debate to a fever pitch, with students across the nation leading anti-gun walkouts and protests, including March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C. While it has long been the NRA’s position that there should be more guns in schools to guard against mass shootings — “the only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is with a good guy with a gun” is a talking point LaPierre has used for years — LaPierre followed Trump’s lead during his CPAC speech, fiercely criticizing the FBI for the Florida shooting. The FBI has acknowledged it failed to properly investigate a tip about alleged shooter Nikolas Cruz. “As we’ve learned in recent months, even the FBI is not free of its own corruption and its own unethical agents,” LaPierre said, appearing to blaming the agency for leaks to the media. “What is hard to understand is why no one at the FBI stood up and called B.S. on its rogue leadership.” Trump has similarly painted the FBI as too focused on proving that his campaign colluded in Russia’s 2016 election meddling to protect the country and described its reputation as being in “tatters.” Trump’s and LaPierre’s attacks on Thursday also extended to the mainstream news media, long a favorite foil of conservatives – and perhaps Trump more so than anyone. Just as the President has dismissed stories and even entire news outlets whose coverage is unfavorable to him as “fake news,” LaPierre lamented that coverage of the Second Amendment and gun control issues is unfairly skewed, saying journalists “hate the NRA” and are “eager to smear” the organization. Speaking at the NRA’s annual meeting last year, LaPierre said the media was constructing a “calculated campaign to destroy honest truth… to dictate how we should think, how we should feel, or how we should act.” The NRA was an early backer of Trump, and spent $30 million supporting his candidacy, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. “They put a big bet on Donald Trump and they won,” Robert Maguire, an investigator with the Center for Responsive Politics, told TIME in a recent interview before Trump expressed new openness to limited gun control measures. “And thats particularly interesting because of all the sacred cows he’s gored as President, the 2nd amendment and the NRA are not one of them.” Indeed, before his election, Trump vowed loyalty to NRA members. “The only way to save our Second Amendment is to vote for someone you know named Donald Trump,” he told NRA members during their annual gathering in 2016, shortly after the NRA endorsed him. “I will never let you down.” And despite whatever daylight may open in the days ahead between Trump, LaPierre and the NRA — on strengthening background checks, raising age requirements for gun purchases, and how exactly to change the rules around “bump stocks” — they agree on something else: that the NRA cares. “What many people don’t understand, or don’t want to understand, is that Wayne [LaPierre] Chris [Cox] and the folks who work so hard at the NRA are Great People and Great American Patriots,” Trump said Thursday morning on Twitter. “They love our Country and will do the right thing. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” Just hours later, LaPierre declared of gun control advocates during his CPAC speech: “They don’t care if their laws work or not,” he added. They just want get more laws to get more control over people. But the NRA, the NRA does care.”
The Prosecutor General of Ukraine has launched an investigation into claims surrounding an alleged multi-million dollar lobbying contract that names one of US President Donald Trump's most influential fundraisers, Elliott Broidy. The 12-page document, which appears to have been signed by Broidy, outlines his role as providing "political advocacy" on behalf of a now sanctioned Russian bank, VTB. The deal was apparently dated June 12, 2014, just weeks before VTB Bank was blacklisted by the United States and European Union as a key Kremlin asset following Russia's invasion of Crimea. Russian President Vladimir Putin is guest of honour at VTB Bank's investor conference every year. The document raises serious questions about whether Broidy is in breach of the US Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), a law that has gained prominence following the investigation of special counsel Robert Mueller into foreign meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his aide Rick Gates have both been charged as a result of their work in Ukraine. The document, obtained by Al Jazeera's Investigative Unit, also suggests that Broidy, a national deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, would provide the same services to Investment Capital Ukraine (ICU), a Ukraine brokerage that has acted as financial advisors to President Petro Poroshenko. "If this is a bonafide document, it is very troubling," says the Washington-based organisation Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW). "Broidy appears to be an unregistered agent of a foreign principal in violation of federal law," says spokesman Jordan Libowitz. US law requires American citizens involved in lobbying on behalf of foreign governments or parties to register with the US Department of Justice on their Foreign Registered Agents (FARA) database. Al Jazeera found no evidence that Broidy is registered despite mounting evidence of multiple foreign clients. Details of the alleged consultancy first emerged in Ukraine in January. The files were handed to Ukraine's Prosecutor General, who has ordered the Kiev Prosecutor's office to investigate further. Ukraine's Institute of Law and Society submitted the documents to authorities, and the reform group is now calling for a thorough investigation in both Ukraine and the US. The document outlines the work to be undertaken by Broidy, which includes "regular political and business analysis, political advocacy, investment advice, and money management" to VTB Bank and ICU. The consultancy work was apparently to be paid in five annual payments of $2.5m from an offshore company, Quillas Equities SA, which is registered in the British Virgin Islands, but with an address in Dubai. According to the Panama Papers, a massive leak of offshore documentation, Quillas Equities SA's shareholder is Yuri Soloviev, first deputy president and chairman of VTB Bank Management Board. The document names Broidy as a consultant who has "many years of investment banking and money management experience." It goes on to detail his "expertise in international investments and American politics." The alleged agreement outlines Broidy's background in Republican politics, describing how he served "as Finance Chair of the Republican Party and has access to US politicians and government agencies." The business and lobbying activities of this prominent Republican are coming under increasing scrutiny beyond Ukraine. Last week a group calling itself LA Confidential leaked emails that appeared to show Broidy and his wife Robin Rosenzweig, deputy finance chair of the Republican National Committee, asking for more than $75m to quash an investigation in the US into a multibillion-dollar fraud in Malaysia. Further revelations came from The New York Times, which reported that Broidy has a lucrative defence contract with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and that he had lobbied President Trump to meet privately with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the leader of the UAE. The emails suggest he has direct access to the US President. Romanian media have also reported Broidy's role in negotiating arms deals worth potentially millions of dollars. In 2009, Broidy pleaded guilty in New York to bribing New York state pension officials with almost $1m in return for their $250m investment in an Israel-focused investment fund he helped to manage. He and the firm paid over $30m in fines; however, the charges against Broidy were downgraded, and he avoided jail. Now, Broidy claims he is the victim of a "hack" and smear campaign orchestrated by the state of Qatar in response to his criticism of the Gulf state's record against terrorism, a charge that Qatar denies. Amid long-standing regional rivalries, the UAE, along with Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Bahrain, has imposed a nine-month-long siege on Qatar. Broidy has close financial ties to the UAE and its royal family. Broidy's wider links with the Middle East are now reportedly of interest in the FBI's far-reaching probe into foreign influence in US politics, which are mostly focused on Paul Manafort. Breaches of the Foreign Agents Registration Act form a key part of this investigation. 'Confidential MOU' A second document appears to expose further connections with the UAE. It outlines a plan for ICU and an Abu Dhabi based company to invest $40m into a fund to be managed by Broidy. The same group also handed what is described as a "Confidential Memorandum of Understanding" to prosecutors in Ukraine. The Abu Dhabi firm and ICU apparently agreed to provide 80 percent of the investment, including an initial $3.5m payment. It is unclear as to what the $40m was to be used for. This alleged MOU states that the deal was effective from December 2014, but omits specific details on how the money would be invested. It is also not clear if it was ever completed as the paperwork is unsigned. Broidy owns a security company, which is run by former US military personnel and provides services to governments in the Middle East. Its services include conducting "specialised operations, infrastructure protection and training." Broidy, a Los Angeles-based financier and seasoned political operator, has raised millions of dollars in donations for the Republican Party. He is tipped to be a key part of Trump's campaign team for 2020. In a response to these claims, ICU denies that the company, or its affiliates, has had any relationship with Broidy or his company and describes the contracts as being part of an elaborate forgery. "We believe they are part of a malicious fraud against us," they told Al Jazeera in a statement. VTB Bank also denied dealing with the Republican Party fundraiser. "Yuri Soloviev is not acquainted with Elliott Broidy and has never had any business dealings with him." Al Jazeera also approached Broidy for comment during the preparation of this article. However, no response was received. — Elliott Broidy (@Elliott_Broidy) March 8, 2018 Al Jazeera obtained the documents as part of a one-year investigation into corruption involving Eastern European oligarchs, which also revealed a massive off-shore corruption network linked to former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
President Donald Trump angrily said Thursday that he is considering withdrawing immigration and border control enforcement agencies from California because of what he called the state's "protection of horrible criminals." Trump said crime would explode in California if he took such an action — and predicted that the Golden State would be "begging" for the return of federal immigration authorities within two months. In response, California Gov. Jerry Brown told CNBC in a written statement: "In California we protect all of our people from criminals and gangs, as well as dangerous assault weapons. We do our job Mr. President, you do yours." In his state of the state address last year, the Democratic governor issued a strong rebuke to Trump's previous threats over how California deals with immigration. "Let me be clear," Brown said at the time. "We will defend everybody — every man, woman and child who has come here for a better life and has contributed to the well-being of our state." In January, California became the nation's first "sanctuary state" with passage of a law that bars local authorities from asking about the immigration status of people during routine interactions. Also, the state requires employers to first obtain a warrant from immigration agents before giving them access to the workplace and restricts what kind of sensitive employee information they can voluntarily share with agents without a subpoena. In signing the so-called sanctuary bill last fall, Brown said the measure "also bans unconstitutional detainer requests and prohibits the commandeering of local officials to do the work of immigration agents." Brown, though, has insisted that "this bill does not prevent or prohibit Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Department of Homeland Security from doing their own work in any way." Trump lashed out against California during remarks he made Thursday during a White House event on school safety. His tirade began as he spoke about gang members such as those in the Salvadoran group MS-13. "These are absolutely animals, these aren't human beings, these are animals," Trump said. He said that "while we're getting MS-13 out by the thousands," members of the gang still manage to enter the United States. "They're smart," Trump said. "They actually have franchises going to Los Angeles." "We're getting no help from the state of California," the president fumed, saying that the state is doing a lousy job of managing the situation, despite having "the highest taxes in the nation." "Frankly, if I wanted to pull our people from California, you'd have a crime mess like you've never seen in California," Trump said. "All I'd have to say is ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement] and Border Patrol, let California alone, you'd be inundated, you would see crime like nobody's seen in this country." "Frankly, it's a disgrace," Trump said. "The sanctuary city situation, the protection of these horrible criminals ... if we ever pulled our ICE out and said, 'Hey, let California alone and let them figure it out themselves,' in two months they'd be begging for us to come back." "And you know what? I'm thinking about doing it!" Last week, a five-day sweep in California led to the arrest by federal authorities of 212 undocumented immigrants and the targeting of 122 businesses in Southern California. The action followed raids in Northern California targeting undocumented immigrant workers. — CNBC's Jeff Daniels contributed to this report.
The shooter, Nikolas Cruz, struggled with depression, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism, according to a 2016 Florida Department of Children and Families report. But having a mental health diagnosis does not mean he would become violent, many experts say. And although Trump has said he wants to focus on mental health to stop school shootings, calling Cruz a "sicko" doesn't help, those experts claim. ....immediately fire back if a savage sicko came to a school with bad intentions. Highly trained teachers would also serve as a deterrent to the cowards that do this. Far more assets at much less cost than guards. A "gun free" school is a magnet for bad people. ATTACKS WOULD END! "When it comes to mental health, language really matters. This is not about being politically correct. It's about wanting to do everything we can to encourage people to get health treatment that works," said Ron Honberg, senior policy adviser with the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Getting treatment is a challenge for the majority of people. Though 25% of the world's population has at one time experienced a mental or behavioral disorder, the World Health Organization says, only 44% of adults with diagnosable mental health problems and less than 20% of children and adolescents get the needed treatment, according to MentalHealth.gov. Studies have shown that people do not get help, in part, due to the stigma. "Hearing language like this is a punch to the gut, particularly if we have a goal as a nation to increase access to mental health care," Honberg said. "This is about the worst thing you can do." MentalHealth.gov, a federal website, cautions against using stigmatizing labels like "crazy." "How helpful is calling a black person the n-word? Not only is it disrespectful, it fans racism," said Pat Corrigan, a distinguished professor of psychology at the Illinois Institute of Technology who manages the National Consortium on Stigma and Empowerment. "Using such language when it comes to people with mental illness is the height of disrespect and the height of ignorance, as it reduces some hugely complex person down to a diagnosis." Corrigan also points out that it's wrong for a politician to use someone like Cruz -- or Sandy Hook shooter Adam Lanza or any other school shooters -- to imply that someone with a mental illness diagnosis is more likely to be dangerous or violent. "You have these people living on the streets, and I can say in many cases throughout the country, they are very dangerous and shouldn't be there," Trump said Thursday. But studies show otherwise. The greater majority of people with a mental illness will never be violent, research has found; in fact, people with mental illness are much more likely to be victims of violence. "Countless studies have shown that if you were going to predict who is most likely to be violent, mental illness falls way down the list. Age, gender, ethnicity is a much greater factor, and we wouldn't lock people up based on these qualities," Corrigan said. One of the solutions, Trump suggests, is to institutionalize more people with mental illness. "Part of the problem is, we used to have mental institutions, and I said this yesterday, we had a mental institution where you take a sicko, like this guy, he was a sick guy, so many signs, and you bring him to a mental health institution," he said. "We've got to get them out of our communities." Evidence shows the contrary, however. Locking up people with mental illness for a long time is counterproductive, studies have found. "The best care is not locking someone away in a hospital. It's done in the community, where you can have treatment that will help you get back to school or to work," Corrigan said. The American Psychological Association cautions that it is important to keep gun policy and mental health policy in distinct categories. "Science shows the most consistent and powerful predictor of future violence is a history of violent behavior, not a diagnosable -- or diagnosed -- mental illness. The mental health needs of the country are separate from the issue of mass shootings," association CEO Arthur C. Evans Jr. said. "People with mental illness account for a very small portion of incidents involving gun violence, and research has shown that individuals with mental illness are no more likely to become violent than individuals without mental illness," he said. "Involuntarily committing people with mental illness will not address our public health crisis of gun violence." Violent murders by people with a mental diagnosis did not go up when large institutions in the United States and the UK were closed, said Diana Rose, a professor of user-led research who studies mental health at King's College London. "You cannot solve the problem by locking people up. It is just nonsense, and it destroys lives and is a deep form of social control, rather than provide people the support they need." Rose said that calling the shooter a "sicko" is "insulting" and "mean-minded." She added that "it is almost impossible to predict, even if someone has a diagnosis, if they are going to be a risk" for violence. "Evidence shows you would have to lock up thousands and thousands of people to prevent a very rare crime," Rose said. "It's a completely ridiculous solution."
The current CIA director, named early Tuesday as the nominee to be the nation’s top diplomat, has long rejected the widely-accepted science behind man-made global warming, dashing hopes that the United States might reverse its decision to leave from the Paris climate accord before November 2020, when the deal allows the country to formally withdraw. In a twist, Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil Corp., turned out to be one of the most moderate voices on climate change in the Trump administration, despite his previous employer’s role as an early and generous financier of the climate change denial movement. Tillerson urged Trump against pulling out of the Paris Agreement last June, and suggested last September that the U.S. could remain in the deal. Still, the State Department rewrote its web page on climate change last March, abolished its climate change envoy position in August and left teams working on global warming issues in limbo , seemingly encouraging staff to leave. Coincidentally, a major environmental nonprofit sued the State Department on Tuesday for refusing to release a U.N. report on U.S. climate action that was due on Jan. 1. Throughout his tenure in Congress, Pompeo received over $1 million in donations from the billionaire Koch brothers’ network, making him their top recipient in the Trump administration. He collected $71,100 from Koch Industries, the Republican megadonors’ fossil fuel conglomerate, catapulting Pompeo to the top of the company’s recipients in Congress in 2016 alone, according to data collated by the Center for Responsive Politics. “Donald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department,” Naomi Ages, Greenpeace USA’s climate director, said in a statement. “In addition to being a climate denier, like his predecessor, Pompeo is Koch brothers’ shill who will denigrate the United States’ reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home.”
The 25-page indictment alleges that from 2015 to September 2017, the two officers exploited their positions to deal 101 firearms to people barred from owning or selling such weapons unless they are in law enforcement or the military. It marks the latest move by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to curtail the abuse of special privileges afforded police officers in purchasing firearms. Arao, of Eastvale, obtained off-roster weapons from the inventory of Ronin Tactical Group, the indictment alleges. Through messages on Instagram and other means, Fernandez and Arao negotiated prices and terms of firearm sales, and accepted payment for the guns once they were delivered, according to the indictment. The pair would also market off-roster firearms at gun shows. Neither Fernandez nor Arao was licensed to deal firearms, the charges allege.
UPS announced today that it would be building its own electric delivery trucks from scratch. It will partner with truck maker Workhorse Group Inc to build the first 50 vans that could eventually replace the delivery giant’s fleet of fossil fuel-burning vehicles. The delivery EVs would have a range of 100 miles and will be delivered in 2018, UPS said. “We see this vehicle as being a game changer in the electric truck arena,” Carlton Rose, UPS’s president for global fleet maintenance and engineering, told Reuters. “It’s also an industry first because the acquisition cost is comparable to gas and diesel.” The Atlanta-based company already has 35,000 gasoline- and diesel-powered vehicles in its fleet. The Workhouse-built trucks would cost about the same as UPS’s conventional vehicles but would have a lower cost of ownership because they are cheaper on a per-mile basis. The new vehicles will join UPS’s preexisting fleet of clean fuel-burning vans. The company has more than 300 electric vehicles deployed in Europe and the US, and nearly 700 hybrid electric vehicles. Last year, UPS put in an order for electric trucks from both Daimler and Tesla, which recently unveiled its own electric Semi. Workhorse, which is based in Loveland, Ohio, is already testing its lightweight N-Gen model, which has a carbon composite frame, in California and Ohio for an unnamed customer. That vehicle weighs 5,500 pounds when empty, or about 5,000 pounds lighter than comparable vehicles.
The U.S. government entered a partial shutdown as Congress missed a midnight deadline to pass spending legislation because of a Republican senator’s objections, but the lapse may last only a few hours as the House and Senate plan votes early Friday morning. There still are risks because of opposition in the House from conservative Republicans and some Democrats to the two-year budget agreement, which will allow an additional $300 billion in spending for the next two years. The bill also would fund the government on a short-term basis until March 23, and would suspend the federal debt limit until March 2019. The shutdown drama played out on the same day that the U.S. stock market tumbled — with the S&P 500 losses of 10 percent since a Jan. 26 high signaling a correction. But if there were fears that a U.S. government shutdown, however brief, could contribute to volatility in the market, they weren’t enough to persuade GOP Senator Rand Paul or a sizable number of House Republicans and Democrats to say they would vote for a plan to keep the government open. The Senate had to wait until after 1 a.m. Friday to take a procedural vote allowing the legislation to proceed because Paul denied the unanimous consent needed to act sooner. The Senate was moving toward passing the bill soon after, and the House plans to vote sometime between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m., if not earlier. The Office of Management and Budget had said in a statement Thursday evening that it was preparing for a lapse in appropriations. If the House keeps to its schedule, funding could be restored by the time government workers arrive at their jobs and financial markets open. “The outcome will not be any different” than if the Senate had voted during the day Thursday, second-ranking Republican John Cornyn of Texas said on Senate floor Thursday after Paul rejected his effort to move the vote up. Paul kept the Senate tied up for hours, arguing against lifting limits on defense and non-defense spending. “If you were against President Obama’s deficits and now you’re for the Republican deficits, isn’t that the very definition of hypocrisy?” he said. In the House, Speaker Paul Ryan emphasized the agreement’s increased funding for the Pentagon to assuage the concerns of Republicans who’ve said they’ll vote no because it also raises spending on domestic programs. Ryan’s intention to bring up an immigration bill “that the president will sign” fell short of demands from Democrats for an open debate on competing proposals. “We must pass this budget agreement first, though, so that we can get on to that,” Ryan said of immigration legislation. “So please know that we are committed to getting this done.” Although Republicans have a 238 to 193 majority in the House, the Freedom Caucus, which numbers about three dozen Republicans, announced they would oppose the accord. That means Ryan and his allies likely will have to rely on support from some Democrats. Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, who emphasized her opposition with an unprecedented eight-hour address on the House floor Wednesday, said she won’t vote for the budget deal without a firm commitment from Ryan on immigration. Nonetheless, she called it “a good bill.” “I’m pleased with the product, I’m not pleased with the process,” she said Thursday at a news conference. Asked whether she’s pressing House Democrats to vote against it, Pelosi said, “I’m just telling people why I’m voting the way I’m voting.” The House Democratic leadership team sent a notice to members, obtained by Bloomberg News, saying that the deal fails to provide a path to legislation that would protect young undocumented people from deportation and urging them to vote against it. Lawmakers from both parties will be picking over the agreement with an eye on how it might play in congressional elections coming in November. President Donald Trump backed the deal, which may give cover to Republicans concerned about adding to the budget deficit in an election year. It’s filled with long-stalled or long-sought priorities for both sides. Republican defense hawks get more funds for the military, while Democrats get extra money for domestic priorities like combating opioid addiction, the National Institutes of Health budget and community health centers. The agreement also repeals a piece of Obamacare -- a Medicare cost-cutting board aimed at ensuring the program’s long-term solvency. And it would provide $90 billion in disaster assistance for California, Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The bill authorizes the sale of 100 million barrels from the Strategic Oil Reserve to pay for some of the new spending, and raises customs and airport security fees in the next decade. It also renews a number of expired tax breaks for calendar 2017 including for cellulosic biofuel, while extending a nuclear power tax credit that was scheduled to expire so that it is available after 2020. The measure would temporarily finance the government at current levels through March 23 while lawmakers fill in the details on longer-term spending. Although Pelosi was part of the bipartisan negotiations that led to the agreement, she said she wants from Ryan what Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell promised Democratic leader Chuck Schumer: an open process for immigration legislation, particularly protections for so-called dreamers, the young immigrants covered under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that Trump is ending. It was unclear how many Democrats would support the spending bill without such a promise from Ryan, but Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina, the Freedom Caucus chairman, estimated that about 50 may be needed to make up for GOP defections and ensure passage. Representative Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat urging his party to kill the bill unless it includes a solution for dreamers, said party leaders weren’t making an all-out effort to withhold Democratic votes. But he said that if it passes, "all the leverage is gone" to force a DACA fix. Republican Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania said the fight to keep the government funded shouldn’t turn on immigration. “I support getting DACA done too but people should vote for it based what’s in the deal, not what’s not in the deal,” he said. “The pragmatic members of both conferences should support this.” — With assistance by Arit John, Justin Sink, Laura Litvan, and Erik Wasson
A special counsel is probing alleged attempts by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to curry favour with members of Donald Trump's campaign team during the 2016 US election, a news report said. The New York Times reported on Saturday that George Nader - an advisor to the de facto ruler of the UAE - has been questioned "for information about any possible attempts by the Emiratis to buy political influence by directing money to support Mr Trump during the presidential campaign, according to people with knowledge of the discussions". Nader, who is described as a White House regular, allegedly took part in discussions of American foreign policy in the Gulf region with then-chief strategist Stephen Bannon and senior advisor Jared Kushner shortly after Trump took office. The Times report highlighted the existence of a memo sent to Nader by Elliot Broidy, a top Republican fund-raiser, allegedly confirming attempts to implement US policies in favour of the UAE. Broidy's private security company, Circinus, has reportedly signed deals with the UAE government that run in the hundreds of millions of dollars since Trump's inauguration. Broidy allegedly tried to arrange a one-on-one meeting between Abu Dhabi's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed and Trump in "an informal setting" - only to be rebuked by National Security Advisor HR McMaster. Speaking to Al Jazeera, former US deputy attorney-general Bruce Fein said while it is not necessarily illegal for foreign governments to try to influence policy, these efforts have to be documented. "The third party has to register under the foreign agent registration act and has to disclose to the public when they speak that they're acting on behalf of a foreign government. That doesn't seem to happen in this particular case," said Fein. The Times report is significant because for the first time a country other than Russia has been linked to the political influence investigation led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller. "The fact that you have so many foreign countries implicated here ... shows the jeopardy of trying to mix government and business. But the fact that you have these governments making the effort shows they think that there's a possibility of succeeding, otherwise they wouldn't be wasting their time," Fein said. The Washington Post reported last month that four countries, including the UAE, may have attempted to exploit Kushner's lack of experience and his family's business debt to influence the US administration's policies.
Recently, Waymo began inviting members of its Early Rider program in Phoenix to take trips in its fully driverless minivans. These are normal people who signed up back in 2017 to serve as guinea pigs for the Google spinoff’s experiments in self-driving transportation. And, as you can see in this new video released Tuesday, the experience is equal parts thrilling and boring. In the video, the passengers giggle nervously at the sight of an empty driver’s seat, wondering aloud whether passersby are also slightly freaked out, and making casual references to “the future.” Then, very quickly, as is common among most ride-hailing passengers, they start to zone out. They look at their phones, they yawn, and one even falls asleep. When they reach their destination, they thank not the driver but the car. To be sure, a Waymo employee and a camera operator were in the vehicles during the rides, albeit not in the driver’s seat. Waymo plans to keep a staffer in the car for the initial phase. I rode in one of Waymo’s driverless minivans (on a closed test track, not on a public road), so I can attest to the fact that the thrill wears off quickly after you see how cautiously the vehicle handles itself. There is something unsettling about riding in a car without a human behind the steering wheel, but your brain quickly adapts to the experience. Still, numerous surveys suggest that self-driving cars, despite their potential to save lives, scare the crap out of most people. The notion of putting your life in the hands of a driverless vehicle is unnerving, given that the technology remains mostly elusive. Public education, like the advertisements and videos released by Waymo in recent months, will be crucial in helping people overcome their initial fears. As such, Waymo’s Early Riders will no doubt be featured front-and-center in the company’s public relations campaign. To date, none of the members of the program have been interviewed or publicly identified. (Waymo has them under strict nondisclosure agreements.) But when the time comes to expand the program to the wider public, Waymo is likely to lean heavily on testimonies from these everyday people. Waymo released this video in conjunction with a public appearance by its CEO John Krafcik at SXSW in Austin, where he is expected to tout some of his company’s recent advances. These include the state of Arizona granting Waymo a permit to operate a driverless ride-hailing business, and the completion of 5 million miles of testing on public roads. Krafcik is also likely to mention Waymo’s recent deal with Fiat-Chrysler to dramatically expand its fleet of autonomous vehicles. Waymo currently has 600 Chrysler Pacifica minivans in its fleet, some of which are used in its Early Rider program in Arizona. The first 100 were delivered when the partnership was announced in May 2016, and an additional 500 were delivered in 2017. Waymo also has test vehicles operating on public roads in San Francisco, Atlanta, Washington state, and Michigan.
Cities are often thought of as places for the young, but the reality is that many have an ageing population. What difference does the age of a city's residents make? Over the past two decades, the average age of a UK resident has risen by two years, to 40. Within 30 years, one in four people is expected to be aged 65 and over. But the picture in cities is more complex. At 38, the average city dweller is younger. Cities are home to 62% of people aged 18-34, but only 46% of those aged 65 and over. Despite this, the populations of most UK cities are growing older, raising big questions about what that means for their development, and for meeting the future needs of residents. The Centre for Cities looks at built-up urban areas with 135,000 or more people, rather than just officially recognised cities. This allows us to compare changes across the UK's largest centres of population. The UK's youngest cities The UK city with the youngest population is Slough, with an average age of 33.9 and only one in 10 people aged 65 and over. It is followed by Oxford (34.4) and Luton (35.1). The average age in London, the sixth youngest city, is 36.5. Slough and Luton have particularly high shares of under-18s, partly because they have the highest birth rates of all UK cities - 16.6 and 17.9 births for every 1,000 residents, compared to the British average of 11.8. This has been partly driven by their young migrant populations. Oxford has the highest share of people aged 18-24, reflecting the city's large university population. The UK's oldest cities In contrast, Blackpool has the oldest population of any UK city, with an average age of 43.2. It is followed by fellow coastal cities of Worthing (43), Bournemouth (42.8) and Southend (42.2). These cities have high shares of people who are at retirement age. More than one in five residents of each city was 65 and over in 2016 - apparently reflecting the pull of the seaside for people who have finished their working lives. Change over the past 20 years Over the past 20 years, younger people have increasingly chosen to live in urban areas, while the share of older residents in cities has fallen. In 1996, 58% of people aged 18-34 lived in cities, but this had risen to 62% by 2016. In contrast, the share of people aged 65 or older in cities fell from 51% to 46% during this period. Despite these patterns, the average age of the population in most cities has changed in line with that of the population of the UK as a whole. Only six cities - Brighton, Exeter, Oxford, Cambridge, Coventry and Slough - saw a drop in the average age of their population, mostly as a result of expanding student populations and Slough's high birth rate. The populations of most cities grew older. Sunderland's population aged most, with the average resident being just under four years older (41) in 2016 than in 1996. It is closely followed by the urban areas around Aldershot, Warrington and Middlesbrough. There are two main groups among the cities which age faster than others. The first is made up of those which have struggled economically in recent decades - for example, Middlesbrough and Wigan. They have seen a decline in people aged between 25 and 40 - most probably because of young people moving away in search of job opportunities. The second group is made up of new towns such as Milton Keynes and Warrington. It was mostly young people who moved to new towns in the decades after they were created. However, those once-young residents have got older - and the average age of these cities has increased. Milton Keynes, for example, had a large population of 20 and 30-somethings in 1996, but they are now approaching middle age. What does this mean for cities? A younger population can bring advantages such as attracting businesses, who will have a larger pool of working age residents to draw from. However, cities need to provide opportunities for young people to start and build careers, as well as cultural amenities, schools and affordable housing. Among those cities which have been getting younger, Oxford, Cambridge and Brighton have large shares of high-skilled, high-paying jobs, and all offer good access to quality schools. But housing is an issue in these cities, which are among the least affordable places in the UK. Cities with older populations have different benefits and challenges. Older people of working age tend to be more productive and can command higher wages because of their experience and skills. This in turn increases disposable income which can be spent in shops, bars and restaurants. But it's also clear that places which have older residents face greater demands in terms of health and social care provision. Another challenge, which faces all cities, is that they do not have great flexibility over how they spend money. For example, much of the money that cities receive from central government is allocated for specific issues - like potholes and schools. It could be that some would benefit from being able to prioritise social care, or affordable family homes, for example. As their populations continue to diverge, cities are likely to become increasingly focused on the needs of their own residents. It is clear that some will be growing old faster than others. About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation. Andrew Carter is Chief Executive and Paul Swinney is Head of Research and Policy at the Centre for Cities, which describes itself as working to understand how and why economic growth and change takes place in the UK's cities.
AI is changing everything. The healthcare industry is in the middle of a revolution, social media is getting smarter, and the era of drone-wielding super villains is right around the corner. Earlier this week seven of the world’s most prominent organizations in the field of futurism published a report predicting the dangers posed by AI. The document is called “The Malicious Use of Artificial Intelligence: Forecasting, Prevention, and Mitigation.” You can read the full version here. It’s 100 pages long and utterly terrifying. The only thing that could make it scarier is if Samuel L. Jackson were holding you at gunpoint and screaming it at you. It was put together in a collaboration between OpenAI, The Future of Humanity Institute, University of Oxford, University of Cambridge, Center for the Study of Existential Risk, Center for a New American Security, and Electronic Frontier Foundation. For perspective, those groups and universities represent notable figures like Elon Musk and Nick Bostrom, and contain members from each of the big US tech companies. This study wasn’t conducted by a vague market research group, but by working AI experts. One section in particular is troubling: “Physical Security.” It’s broken down into five distinct threats, each of which could be combined with any or all of the others to become even more frightening. Let’s grab some popcorn and dive in. First up: “Terrorist repurposing of commercial AI systems.” When a report on the threat AI poses to our physical security starts with the word “terrorist” we’re off to a bad start. Or maybe it’s a good start because the people who warn us about stuff like this are doing their jobs. When AI is used in this way, according to the study: The fear here is that terrorists would gain control of autonomous vehicles and crash them into buildings, basically 9/11 with computers instead of hijackers. According to the researchers this falls under the danger of “expansion of existing threats.” The second section is called: “Endowing low-skill individuals with previously high-skill attack capabilities.” This threat is an extension of the cyber threat that AI poses. Just a decade ago hackers were considered computer experts, now all it takes to be a hacker is to download the right software on the darknet. It’s likely AI will transform physical crime in much the same way. Car thieves, for example, could let a computer figure out how to override the ECM on a vehicle, while AI-powered image recognition walked them through cutting wires or defeating alarm systems. Next up, bigger is always better: “Increased scale of attacks.” With this kind of attack we’re seriously getting into Marvel Comics bad guy territory. What if Elon Musk is really building underground tunnels all over the world to house a robot army instead of hyperloops? It would explain why he knows how World War III will start. And for those of you who’ve watched Netflix’s Black Mirror, there’s section four: “Swarming attacks.” In this case the researchers are talking about criminals using AI to attack multiple systems at once. While law enforcement trains for these conflagration attacks, the threat here is that a dozen different systems ranging from traffic lights to bank security could be compromised instantly. In Hollywood movies this is accomplished by the “brain” of the operation hiring a series of specialized expert criminals. But in the future it could be accomplished by a few idiots with iPhones and algorithms. If terrorists using drones to attack us or the rise AI-powered super villains doesn’t get your blood pumping, perhaps the idea of getting mugged remotely will. The final section is called: “Attacks further removed in time and space.” Imagine getting into an argument with someone on social media who later tracks you down using AI and sends a drone to smash your car windshield while you’re travelling down the highway at 100 k/mh. Or even worse, getting robbed at gun point by an autonomous machine that’s set to self destruct if it’s caught. Welcome to a future where even petty criminals can phone it in and work from home. Want to hear more about AI from the world’s leading experts? Join our Machine:Learners track at TNW Conference 2018. Check out info and get your tickets here. Read next: Who needs Half-Life 3 when you have Final-Half-Fantasy-Life XV?
Sometime in the past two years, wire-free earbuds graduated from clumsy to impressively good, and from not quite worth it to the only pair I wear. Apple deserves a lot of credit for this: it managed to get people to wear what look like short cigarette sticks in their ears in exchange for a completely seamless connection between device and earbuds. But there are others that have moved the ball forward, too, like Bragi, Jabra, Samsung, and Bose. Those last two companies have produced what we consider to be particularly good wire-free earbuds: the Samsung Gear IconX (second generation) and the Bose SoundSport Free. So, in the latest episode of Versus, we did a head-to-head (ear-to-ear?) comparison of these two pairs, which range in price from $160 to $200. There’s a lot to consider these days when you’re in the market for new headphones, and for the most part, the standard benchmarks are the same. You’re still weighing sound quality, price, advanced audio controls, style, and fit. But with wire-free earbuds in particular, that last consideration is the most important. Comfort becomes as essential as if you’re shoe shopping; if the earbuds hurt or feel like they might fall out at any moment, then any sort of brand cache or quality assurance is immediately negated by a bad fit. Headphones are also a very subjective thing, which is why we dispatched two of us to try out these headphones. Okay, that last part might not be true.
A 29-year-old woman from Russia has been arrested in Washington, D.C. on accusations that she conspired to infiltrate political organizations, including the gun rights group NRA, on behalf of the Russian government. The U.S. Justice Department announced on Monday that Maria Butina, who lives in Washington, D.C., was arrested in the capital on Sunday. She was charged in federal court with conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of the Russian government. According to prosecutors, Butina worked as a special assistant to a high-level official in the Russian government. Although the official’s name was not released, his profile fits that of Alexander Torshin, the deputy governor of Russia’s central bank and a former senator. Investigators believe Butina first met an American political operative in Moscow in 2013, after which the operative – whose name has not been released – introduced her to Americans who have influence in U.S. politics, including the gun rights organization NRA. According to court documents, Butina told the operative in an email sent in 2015 that Republicans were likely to win the 2016 election. She further explained that the NRA plays a significant role in the Republican Party as it is the largest sponsor of elections to the U.S. Congress. Prosecutors allege that Butina and the Russian official worked together to develop relationships with American politicians in order to establish private lines of communication. “These lines could be used by the Russian Federation to penetrate the U.S. national decision-making apparatus to advance the agenda of [Russia],” the criminal complaint says. Butina is believed to have met with U.S. politicians and political candidates as part of the influence operation, which is alleged to have begun as early as 2015 and continued through February 2017. She also attended events which were sponsored by special interest groups and were attended by politicians and political candidates. The criminal complaint alleges that Butina undertook her activities without officially disclosing that she was acting as an agent of the Russian government, which is required by U.S. law. If convicted, she could face a maximum sentence of up to 5 years in prison. Robert Driscoll, an attorney for Butina, denied the allegations. “Maria Butina is not an agent of the Russian Federation. She is a Russian national in the United States on a student visa who recently graduated from American University in Washington, D.C. with a Masters Degree in International Relations,” he said. Driscoll said Butina had been cooperating with government entities for months, and noted that she voluntarily and privately testified before the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee for 8 hours and produced thousands of documents. He said she would also have cooperated with law enforcement if they had requested her to do so. “There is simply no indication of Butina seeking to influence or undermine any specific policy or law [of] the United States – only at most to promote a better relationship between the two nations,” Driscoll added. “The Complaint is simply a misuse of the Foreign Agent statute, which is designed to punish covert propaganda, not open and public networking by foreign students.” There was no immediate comment from the Russian government on the U.S. allegations against Butina. Monday’s news came just hours after a high-profile meeting in Helsinki between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Putin said during a joint press conference that he wanted Trump to win the election because the Republican spoke about normalizing U.S.-Russian relations, but he emphasized that Russia had never, and would never, interfere in U.S. affairs, including election processes. At a public event in 2015, Butina asked then-candidate Trump about his foreign policy plans and whether he would continue U.S. sanctions against Russia. “I believe I would get along very nicely with Putin .. I don’t think you need the sanctions,” Trump told Butina. The allegations against Butina were not filed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russia’s alleged interference in the U.S. election and possible links to Trump’s campaign. Twelve Russian intelligence officers have been charged in the U.S. for allegedly hacking into computer networks of the Democratic Party. LINK: Read the criminal complaint against Butina (PDF)
A family physician with the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, Dr Kennis Ebirim, has been reported dead after watching Super Eagles’s match against Argentina in the Russia 2918 FIFA World Cup. Family members, colleagues and neighbours confirmed the death of Ebirim to NAN at his residence in Owerri. Report has it that the deceased had slumped and was rushed to hospital after Nigeria crashed out of the world football tournament. Dr Chikere Ebirim, a lecturer in the Department of Public Health, Federal University of Technology, Owerri, and younger brother to the deceased, expressed shock over the development. He said: “We were together on Sunday with my dad. He used to have cases of heart attack but he was also on medication. “This is so shocking because he was sound in health when he left Owerri on Monday morning for Abakaliki where he works.” Dr Hyacinth Emele, the immediate past Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Imo state branch, also confirmed the incident to NAN, describing it as a heavy blow to the association. “The NMA in Imo and indeed in Nigeria is in deep shock. This is a heavy blow. More than just a colleague, he was a brother, one who could never hurt a fly,” he said. On the possible cause of the doctor’s death, Emele said: “Dr Ebirim has been a hypertensive patient who has also been on medication. “What happened to him is what we call sudden death syndrome which most times are caused by a cardiac arrest. “As a patriotic Nigerian who is passionate about his country just like many of us including me, it is possible the outcome of that match may have triggered the confusion in his system, causing him to slump. “I think an autopsy will reveal what exactly transpired in his system. When that is done, the exact cause of death will be made known to the public.” Sgt. Michael Attah, the Chief Security Officer, Heartland Estate, Owerri, where the doctor lived with his family until his death, said the management of the estate confirmed the incident on Wednesday. “We thought it was a joke until we confirmed it on Wednesday. We feel sad because he was someone we trusted with the position of treasurer in the estate,” he said. Ebirim is survived by his father, wife, four children and relations. Copyright Naija News 2018. All rights reserved. You may only share Naija News content using our sharing buttons. Send News reports to newsroom@naijanews.com
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says while he finds Holocaust denial "deeply offensive," he doesn't believe that such content should be blocked from Facebook. Speaking with Recode's Kara Swisher, Zuckerberg, who is Jewish, said in an interview published Wednesday that he thinks there are things "that different people get wrong." He added that he doesn't think they are "intentionally" getting it wrong. At this point, Swisher cut in and said that in the case of Holocaust deniers, it may be intentionally wrong. In a follow-up email to Swisher, Zuckerberg sought to clarify his comments. "I personally find Holocaust denial deeply offensive, and I absolutely didn't intend to defend the intent of people who deny that," he noted. The remarks sparked criticism, including from the Anti-Defamation League, which said in a statement that Facebook has a "moral and ethical obligation" not to allow people to disseminate Holocaust denial on its platform. Zuckerberg said offensive content isn't necessarily banned unless it is to organize harm or attack someone. "What we will do is we'll say, 'Okay, you have your page, and if you're not trying to organize harm against someone, or attacking someone, then you can put up that content on your page, even if people might disagree with it or find it offensive'," he said.
'Giant water battery' in far north Queensland gets conditional approval for $500m loan Updated June 20, 2018 17:37:12 Australia's first renewable energy project to combine solar energy and pumped hydro storage has been given conditional approval for $500 million in funding. The Northern Australian Infrastructure Facility (NAIF) is planning to provide $516 million for the Kidston solar project near Georgetown in far north Queensland. The company told the share market that the NAIF board "expressed its support" for the expansion. If approved, it would be one of the largest loans made by the NAIF. Once built, the project would be the first in Australia to combine solar energy and pumped hydro storage. Genex Power executive director Simon Kidston said a loan would be a significant step for the company as it develops the project's second phase — a 250 megawatt pumped storage hydro project that's fully integrated with an expanded solar farm. "All of the energy from the solar farm is used to pump the water from a lower reservoir to a higher reservoir, then we can release that water and generate power at peak demand." Mr Kidston said it has taken NAIF six months to assess the company's application for a loan. "They did take their time to understand the risks, understand the opportunities," he said. "I think they worked through in a very methodical and professional way, so full credit to NAIF for that." The funding is subject to several conditions, including due diligence and a cost-benefit analysis. State-owned energy corporation Powerlink is planning a 125-kilometre transmission line to run from the Kidston Solar power project, 200 kilometres west of Townsville, to connect with the national grid at Mt Fox. Landholders previously raised concerns about potential biosecurity issues during construction, as well as the impact on cattle station management. Genex Power is also in discussions with banks about providing the rest of the funding needed for the project. Mr Kidston said once complete, the project would provide reliable energy to the country. "Pumped storage hydro is the most efficient mature technology to store energy, and integrating this with solar and potentially wind over time, we can deliver the holy grail of renewable which is dispatchable reliable energy," he said. NAIF chief executive Laurie Walker said the project would provide substantial benefits to Northern Australia. "NAIF sees the project as important for the transition of the market to lower emission renewable energy sources," she said. The NAIF would provide a long-term debt facility for more than 20 years, at concessional interest rates. The NAIF has previously announced $16.8 million in funding for the Onslow Marine Support Base in Western Australia and $7.18 million for a barramundi farm in the Northern Territory. Federal Minister for Northern Australia Matt Canavan also welcomed the progress, but said the funding was not guaranteed yet. "The NAIF board has not yet made an investment decision, nor has it given any commitment for financial assistance," he said. Senator Canavan said the potential loan was a direct result of recent changes to the NAIF's investment mandate to make it more flexible, and several other projects were also being considered. "There are currently 97 active projects in the NAIF pipeline, with 18 projects in the 'due diligence' phase," he said. Topics: environment, alternative-energy, solar-energy, hydro-energy, community-development, rural, regional, community-and-society, federal---state-issues, government-and-politics, federal-government, georgetown-4871, townsville-4810, brisbane-4000, qld, australia First posted June 20, 2018 14:00:52
It was described as "fly-tipping on an industrial scale" - sofas, fridge freezers and bin bags left on a mountain roadside. The rubbish was left on a route between Merthyr Tydfil and Cwm Bargoed - an area popular with hikers and mountain bikers. Councillor Andrew Barry described the amount of mess as "jaw dropping". Merthyr Tydfil council officers can now serve £400 fixed penalty notices for small scale fly tipping. The powers have been granted following 2,045 complaints about the problem in the area since April 2017. Mr Barry said: "It's domestic waste, it's commercial waste and people come all over to dump rubbish here. "This is a beautiful area with lakes and hills, but there's a mindless minority who think it's ok to dump rubbish here. "And when one person does it, it looks like others have followed." He described it as "heartbreaking", but said plans were under way to clean up the area. Mr Barry also called on residents to report anyone seen fly tipping. Merthyr council insisted tackling the issue was a priority. A spokesman for the local authority said Keep Britain Tidy figures for 2016-17 showed one million incidents across the UK had cost £50m to clear. "We are still achieving our target of 100% of fly tipping cleared off council owned land within five working days," he added. "Although we only remove waste from council-owned land, we investigate all incidents of fly tipping. "However, it is the responsibility of the land owner to remove any waste deposited on their land."
A British diver has captured shocking images of himself swimming through a sea of plastic rubbish off the coast of the Indonesian tourist resort of Bali. A short video posted by diver Rich Horner on his social media account and on YouTube shows the water densely strewn with plastic waste and yellowing food wrappers, the occasional tropical fish darting through the deluge. The footage was shot at a dive site called Manta Point, a cleaning station for the large rays on the island of Nusa Penida, about 20km from the popular Indonesian holiday island of Bali. In a Facebook post on 3 March Horner writes how the ocean currents had carried in a “lovely gift” of jellyfish and plankton, and also mounds and mounds of plastic. “Plastic bags, plastic bottles, plastic cups, plastic sheets, plastic buckets, plastic sachets, plastic straws, plastic baskets, plastic bags, more plastic bags, plastic, plastic,” he says, “So much plastic!” The video shows Horner swimming through the mess for several minutes and also how the waste coagulated on the surface, mixing in with some organic matter to form a slick of floating rubbish. Manta Point is regularly frequented by numerous manta rays that visit the site to get cleaned of parasites by smaller fish, but the video shows just one lone manta in the background. “Surprise, surprise, there weren’t many mantas there at the cleaning station today...” notes Horner, “They mostly decided not to bother.” Rubbish has been inundating Bali for several months now, washing over mainly from the neighbouring island of Java during the annual rainy, or “trash” season. The plastic deluge also ends up in unsightly mounds on Bali’s beaches, horrifying tourists and environmentalists alike. Indonesia produces about 130,000 tons of plastic and solid waste every day, with about half of that reaching landfill sites, according to the Bali-based, Rivers, Oceans, Lakes and Ecology (ROLE) Foundation. The rest is either illegally burned or dumped in Indonesia’s rivers and oceans. With poor government planning and low levels of awareness about waste and recycling, Indonesia is now the second-largest plastic polluter in the world after China. Several weeks ago thousands across Bali took part in a mass clean up, in attempt to rid the island’s beaches, rivers and jungles of waste, and raise awareness about the harmful impacts of trash. Rich Horner said that while divers regularly see “a few clouds of plastic” in the rainy season, the slick he identified is the worst yet. Divers returned to the site the next day, he reports, by which time the slick had already moved on, “continuing on its journey, off into the Indian Ocean”.
Joel Holmberg had been batting the idea around for years. But the final decision came last month, as he scrolled through the online vitriol that erupted after a white farmer was acquitted of killing a young Cree man in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. Holmberg turned to social media, but instead of joining in the often-vicious debate surrounding that case, he offered to share his family’s five-acre property in northern Alberta with a First Nations family. There would be no bills, no rent, he explained. Instead the family could join him, his wife and two children in living off the land; hunting, fishing and growing food. “I wanted to offer some sort of hope,” said Holmberg. “It was really disgusting to see the way the racist people were speaking. I wanted to let them know that it’s not everyone in Canada that feels that way.” The invitation to share his acreage near Barrhead, about 100km north-west of Edmonton, seemed like a fair one. “We all know in our heart the truth, that this is all stolen land,” said the 45-year-old. “They’re our hosts and we’re their guests and they’ve been criminally abused for far too long and it has to stop.” Holmberg said his appreciation for First Nations culture began as a child growing up in British Columbia, when members of the Sinixt First Nation began bringing him along as they hunted and fished. “I had the opportunity to do sweats with them and learn about their culture from them and learn about the real history of Canada,” he said. He continued to delve into Canada’s rich tapestry of indigenous cultures as he moved around the country, from the Northwest Territories to Manitoba and Saskatchewan. “They’re the kindest people I’ve ever met. They’ve been there for me in the worst times in my life when I needed help the most,” he said. “It is very clear to my family and I, that it is us that will be blessed by this thing happening most of all.” Since posting the offer earlier this week, Holmberg said he had received hundreds of responses from across Canada and the US. “I haven’t made it through all the messages yet … Somehow it turns out I’m the first white person to think about giving the land back since Marlon Brando,” he said, laughing as he referred to the late actor’s decision to hand over 40 acres of land in California to the Survival of American Indians Association in 1974. He said he had yet to hear any negative reactions to his post. But communities across Canada – from Sikh and Muslim groups to Chinese-Canadians – have expressed interest in helping out. Indigenous elders have contacted him about holding ceremonies on the land while others have inquired about buying the farmland surrounding his property so that his project could expand. Holmberg said he had invited all of them to visit the property, although he said his wife – while still excited about the idea – was starting to feel a little overwhelmed. “It’s starting to look like it could be Woodstock around here this summer,” he laughed. In the coming weeks, Holmberg is hoping to meet interested families and tour them around the property. “It’s a really special place here where we are, there’s a lot of wildlife coming to visit here,” he said. “It’s just really beautiful and I think that a traditional family would really feel that kind of magic that’s in the land here.”
FILE - In this Oct. 4, 2011, file photo, a prospecting drill rig bores into the bedrock near Ely, Minn., in search of copper, nickel and precious metals that Twin Metals Minnesota LLC, hopes to mine near the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness in northeastern Minnesota. Environmental groups filed two more lawsuits Monday, June 25, 2018, challenging the Interior Department's decision to reinstate the federal mineral rights leases for the proposed Twin Metals copper-nickel mine in northeastern Minnesota. The two lawsuits follow a similar case filed Friday by Minnesota businesses that depend on the Boundary Waters Canoe Area. less FILE - In this Oct. 4, 2011, file photo, a prospecting drill rig bores into the bedrock near Ely, Minn., in search of copper, nickel and precious metals that Twin Metals Minnesota LLC, hopes to mine near the ... more MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Environmental groups filed two more lawsuits Monday challenging the Interior Department's decision to reinstate the federal mineral rights leases for the proposed Twin Metals copper-nickel mine in northeastern Minnesota. One of the lawsuits was filed by three national groups: The Wilderness Society, the Center for Biological Diversity and the Izaak Walton League of America. The other was filed by the Minneapolis-based Friends of the Boundary Waters Wilderness. They follow a similar lawsuit filed Thursday by nine businesses that rely on the Boundary Waters Canoe Area, plus Northeastern Minnesotans for Wilderness. All three were filed in federal court in Washington, D.C. The Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management reinstated the leases last month, reversing a decision against renewing them by the Obama administration, which cited the potential harm to the Boundary Waters from acid mine drainage. Twin Metals, which is owned by the Chilean mining company Antofagasta, wants to build an underground mine and ore processing facility near Ely on Birch Lake, which flows into the popular wilderness area. The company has said the mine would create 650 direct jobs as well as 1,300 spinoff jobs without harming the wilderness, and that it believes there's no legal basis for blocking reinstatement of its leases. The project is not as advanced as the separate PolyMet mine, which would become Minnesota's first copper-nickel mine if it gets final approval of its permits. This story has been corrected to show that the first lawsuit was filed Thursday, not Friday.
The Department of Agriculture (DA) is eyeing the construction of 2,000 solar-powered irrigation projects by 2019. “I will request DILG (Department of Interior and Local Government) Secretary (Eduardo) Año to send memorandum to local governments to submit to us listing of areas which could be served by solar-powered irrigation,” DA Secretary Emmanuel Piñol said. DA plans to set up 2,000 solar powered irrigation system projects all over the country until 2019 which could approximately provide water to 100,000 rainfed rice areas. With these areas provided by enough water, additional one million metric tons of rice will be produced. Piñol noted that of the 3.7 million hectares of actual rice farms, only 1.2 million hectares are irrigated. “Water is the most essential part of agriculture” to reach a sustainable food production level, he said. The first solar-powered irrigation system, established in New Janiuay, M’lang, North Cotabato, was designed to irrigate lands as wide as 100 to 150 hectares and could pump 1,000 gallons of water during hot days. This year, 143 units will be installed nationwide under the National Rice and Corn Programs. Meanwhile, Piñol urged all local chief executives in the country to initiate water impounding programs in their localities. This will serve as their counterpart to the DA’s advocacy of solar-powered irrigation system. “We can be rice sufficient, if we have enough water,” he said. Last year, President Rodrigo Duterte switched on the prototype of this project in M’lang, North Cotabato, and DA has completed the first fully operational SPIS project in Matalam, North Cotabato. Around 169 similar projects are expected to be completed by the end of this year.
By WANJIRU MACHARIA, NAIROBI, Kenya, May 10 – At least 27 people have been killed when Patel Dam burst overnight flooding villages in the Subukia area of Nakuru County. The toll, the highest in a single flood-related incident now brings to over 160 the number of people who have died countrywide as a result of floods since heavy rains started in March. The Wednesday night incident occurred at around 9 o’clock in the evening when Patel Dam broke its banks sweeping villages in the Solai area of Subukia. “We have so far found 27 bodies and the search and rescue operation is still going on,” Gideon Kibunja, CID chief for Rift Valley region told Capital FM from the scene. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi flew from Nairobi to lead the operation on Thursday morning and was set to issue a statement over the tragedy at the private dam used for irrigation and fish farming. Our Correspondent at the scene said she had scene gory images of bodies, including of young children, trapped by debris while others were dug out of mud or retrieved from their damaged houses which were washed away by flood waters. The Kenya Red Cross Society (KRCS) reported that thirty-nine people had been rescued in a joint operation with the county government and were admitted to Bahati sub-county and Nakuru County Referral Hospital. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said Nakuru County was working closely with KRCS as well as the security agencies to coordinate rescue missions. Among villages affected are those in the farmlands of Nyakinyua, Endao, and Arutani where hundreds of people were displaced. Also affected were Solai Boys High School and Arutani Girls Secondary School. Statistics released by the Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho on Wednesday indicated that 222,456 people have so far been displaced as a result of ongoing rains in flood-prone areas. According to Kibicho, the government had so far distributed food and medicine worth Sh600 million in thirty-two affected counties. “The government will continue carrying out various mitigation activities across the floods affected parts of the country to; rescue marooned citizens, distribute food, medicine and water, and restore water and sanitation systems to ensure hygienic conditions,” Kibicho said in a statement. According to KRCS, counties of Turkana, Tana River, Garissa, Isiolo, Taita Taveta, Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, West Pokot, Samburu and Narok are the most his by the latest spate of floods. Since March when heavry rains started pouring for instance, at least 8,450 acres of farmland have been submerged in water with an estimated 6,000 livestock killed. The floods have also destroyed road networks in some parts of the country. Security services have deployed choppers in areas where roads have been rendered impassible to rescue marooned civilian populations.
At about 3 p.m. Wednesday, there was ignition and a fire at a Devon saltwater disposal well facility in Kingfisher County, Okla. Three workers employed by contract firms were taken to local hospitals. The fire was quickly contained and the site is secure. All other employees have been accounted for and are safe. The cause of the fire is under investigation; Devon is coordinating with its contractors, local authorities and government agencies.
At least 32 civilians were killed and 10 are missing following an attack in central Mali, believed to have been carried out by traditional hunters, local officials said Sunday, as the government said 16 bodies had been found. Armed Dozo hunters, linked to the Dogon ethnic group, were suspected of ambushing the isolated village of Koumaga in the Mopti region on Saturday, killing dozens of Fulani herders, including children. “They surrounded the village, separated the Fulani people from the others and killed at least 32 civilians in cold blood,” said Abdoul Aziz Diallo, president of the local Tabital Pulaaku association, adding that 10 others were missing. Later he said that attackers had returned to the same village on Sunday night after the army had left, in a fresh assault claiming four new victims. The ministry of defence said it could not confirm the latest attack. Violence has increased over the past three years in central Mali between nomadic Fulani herders and Bambara and Dogon farmers, sparked by accusations of Fulani grazing cattle on Dogon land and disputes over access to land and water. “The men were dressed in Dozo clothing but we wonder if they were all Dozo hunters,” said an elected official from the region, speaking on condition of anonymity. A statement by the government said “a violent clash” took place between communities despite patrols on June 23. “A deployment of Malian army forces despatched to the scene discovered 16 bodies and significant damage,” it added. Central Mali is a vast area where the state is nearly absent and jihadists, blamed for exacerbating the dispute, roam with little constraint. The Bambara and Dogon ethnic groups accuse the pastoralists of colluding with jihadists. The armed forces are facing increasing accusations of arbitrary arrests and extra-judicial killings in their fight against the insurgents. “What is happening is very serious. We must avoid confusion. Just because we are Fulani does not mean we are terrorists,” said Diallo. Late Sunday, he said 10 Fulani were also abducted during the day from a nearby area. No independent source was available to confirm the information. – ‘Deeply concerned’ – On May 19 a Malian soldier and at least 12 other people were killed in violence that occurred during an army patrol through a market. The army said the 12 were “terrorists” who had been “neutralised”, but local residents said they were civilians. The Malian army is often accused of making arbitrary arrests and carrying out extra-judicial executions in the fight against jihadists. On Thursday, the United States asked for a “credible and transparent” investigation following the discovery of the bodies of 25 Fulani in three mass graves in the Mopti region. Washington called on Bamako to recognise the involvement of “certain personnel” of the army. Canada, which has just begun to deploy some 250 peacekeepers in Mali, said it was “deeply concerned” by the alleged military involvement and called for the “perpetrators of these heinous crimes to be brought to justice”. Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita on Friday insisted on “the respect of human rights by all the military, which has an obligation to protect the population”. Mali’s unrest stems from a 2012 Tuareg separatist uprising which was exploited by jihadists in order to take over key cities in the north. The extremists were largely driven out in a French-led military operation launched in January 2013. But large stretches of the country remain out of the control of Malian, French and UN forces, which are frequent targets of attacks.
Cities across the globe have seen unprecedented growth in recent decades. While revisiting a city after a period of time can reveal some surprising changes, the true extent of the expansion of some urban centers can only be truly appreciated from above. Way above. The Landsat satellite program is the longest continuous archive of images of Earth from space in existence. Run by the USGS and NASA since Landsat 1 launched on July 23, 1972, this record of the surface of our planet reveals invaluable insight for scientists and the public alike. A record like this is particularly useful for studying change and understanding the human impact on the landscape. In celebration of four decades of collection of irreplaceable data and incredible images, the Landsat team released these images of change in 11 cities and urban areas all over the world. Images and captions courtesy of NASA and the USGS. Over the years of the Landsat program, the desert city of Las Vegas has gone through a massive growth spurt. The outward expansion of the city over the last quarter of a century is shown here with two false-color Landsat 5 images (Aug. 3, 1984 and Nov. 2, 2011). The dark purple grid of city streets and the green of irrigated vegetation grow out in every direction into the surrounding desert. These images were created using reflected light from the shortwave infrared, near-infrared, and green portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. When Landsat 7 imaged Dubai on July 6, 2000, the city was barely visible against the desert landscape. Long straight roads swept down the coast, and a single harbor jutted into the Gulf. Though it seems small in this image, the city was growing quickly as a trade center, oil producer and member of the United Arab Emirates. Between 1973 and 2010, Dubai transformed entirely. In this Landsat 7 image, taken on Oct. 6, 2010, dense gray city blocks are surrounded by plant-covered land, which is red. Artificial islands dot the coast. Dubai's growth is built on tourism, trade, and oil. Over the last 25 years, Chandler, Arizona has traded its grid of fields for a grid of streets. Founded in 1912 on cotton, grains, alfalfa, and ostrich farms, brown and green irrigated fields still dominate the region southeast of Phoenix in this 1985 natural color image taken by Landsat 5. In 1979, China established two special economic zones around the Pearl River Delta, north of Honk Kong. This image, taken by Landsat 3 on Oct. 19, 1979, shows that the region was rural when the zone was established. Plant-covered land, which is red in this false-color image, dominates the scene. Square grids are agriculture. By Jan. 10, 2003, when Landsat 7 took this image, the Pearl River Delta was a densely populated urban corridor with several large cities. the urban areas are gray in this image. The region is a major manufacturing center with an economy the size of Taiwan's. As of 2010, the Pearl River Economic Zone has a population of 36 million people. Tokyo is the world's largest metropolitan region, home to nearly 37 million people. During the past two decades, Tokyo's population has grown by more than 7 million. The city's growth has continued despite Japan's overall stagnating population, mainly due to a continued trend of centralization -- citizens moving out of the country and into the city. Landsat 4 collected this first false-color image of Tokyo on Feb. 2, 1989. The upper half of Tokyo Bay is the large water body visible in a dark blue. In the middle of the image, central Tokyo appears a deep purple just north of the bay. Twenty-two years later, Landsat 5, captured this second image of Tokyo on April 5, 2011. The urban reaches of metropolitan Tokyo have grown in both distance and density, as seen where the green color of the vegetation has turned to pink and purple shades of urbanization. A major expansion of Tokyo's Haneda Airport, can be seen south of the city, on land built out into the bay. The constant circular spot of green in the dense city-center, visible on both images, is the Tokyo Imperial Palace and its gardens. Between 1985 and 2009, the population of Tehran, Iran, grew from 6 million and to just over 7 million. The city's growth was spurred largely by migration from other parts of the country. in addition to being the hub of government and associated public sector jobs, Tehran houses more than half of Iran's industry. Landsat 5 acquired these false-color images of Tehran on Aug. 2, 1985 and July 19, 2009. The city is a web of dark purple lines, vegetation is green and bare ground is pink and tan. The images were created using both infrared and visible light to distinguish urban areas from the surrounding desert. Forty miles west of downtown Chicago, the Fox River meanders its way through what has become the westernmost reaches of metropolitan Chicago, where the sprawling metropolis meets the hinterlands. While Chicago itself has seen a 7 percent population decline during the last decade, the population of its metropolitan region, "Chicagoland," has steadily increased. These two natural-color Landsat 5 images acquired a quarter-century apart, stand witness to the soaring growth of this region. Aurora, Illinois' second largest city, is the silvery-green region to the left hugging the Fox River, just south of the I-88 (North is to the right in this image); Carpentersville is found on the rightmost side, north of the I-90. From 1985 to 2010 a development explosion can be seen as the browns of pasture lands give way to the silvery-green suburban areas and large white-colored business districts spring up along and east of the river. A major expansion of the Dupage Airport appears in the middle of the 2010 image, and the circular-shaped region north of the I-88 and east of the Fox River, visible on both images, is the Department of Energy's Fermilab. (More verdant vegetation colors of late-summer are found throughout the 2010 image.) Istanbul has been a bustling trade city for thousands of years. In this 1975 image, taken by Landsat, the city centers on the Golden Horn, the estuary that flows into the Bosporus Strait at the center of the scene. Shown in false color, the vegetation is red, urban areas are gray and water appears black. A bridge built in 1973 to connect the Asian and European sides of Istanbul is barely visible. By 2011, Istanbul's population had exploded from 2 million to 13 million people, and the city has gone through a dramatic expansion. This Landsat 5 image shows densely packed urban areas stretching along the Sea of Marmara and up the Bosporus Strait where a second bridge built in 1988 now crosses the water. Thirty-five miles east of downtown Los Angeles lies the city of Ontario, California. In 1881 two Canadian brothers established the town, naming it after their native province. By 1891, Ontario was incorporated as a city. the farming-based economy (olives, citrus, dairy) of the city helped it grow to 20,000 by the 1960s. Subsequently, warehousing and freight trafficking took over as the major industry, and the city's population was over 160,000 by 2010. The L.A./Ontario International Airport is now America's 15 busiest cargo airport. In these natural color Landsat 5 images, the massive growth of the city between 1985 and 2010 can be seen. the airport, found in the southwest portion of the images, added a number of runways and large warehousing structures now dominate the once rural areas surrounding the airport. In these images vegetation is green and brown and urban structures are bright white and gray. (Note there is a large dry riverbed in the northeast corner that is also bright white, but its nonlinear appearance sets it apart visually). The landlocked western African nation of Burkina Faso experienced a 200 percent increase in urban population between 1975 and 2000. As a result, the area of the capital city Ouagadougou grew 14-fold during this period. These Landsat images show the city expanding outward from its center in the two decades between 1986 and 2006. On Nov. 18, 1986 the Landsat 5 satellite acquired this image of the capital. This false-color image shows vegetation in shades of green and gray, water in various shades of blue and urban areas in pink and purple. The runway of the city's airport can be seen as a long straight line that extends from the southwest to northeast south of the large lake, Bois de Boulogne. Two decades later, on Oct. 16, 2006 Landsat 7 acquired this image of Ouagadougou. Growth radiated from the city center in all directions. The green strip of vegetation north of Bois de Boulogne has been paved over and a massive new development including a large thoroughfare and traffic circle can be seen south of the airport.
A 5,500-year-old passage tomb uncovered at Dowth Hall in the heart of the Brú na Bóinne World Heritage site in Co Meath is “the most significant megalithic find in Ireland in the last 50 years”, archaeologists believe. The ancient burial chamber, believed to be about 40m in diameter and half the size of nearby Newgrange, was discovered during archaeological investigations by the agri-technology company Devenish and UCD school of archaeology. Brú na Bóinne is the area within the bend of the river Boyne that contains one of the world’s most important prehistoric landscapes. Dowth Hall and lands were acquired by Devenish in 2013. To date, two burial chambers have been discovered within the western part of the main passage tomb, over which a large stone cairn was raised. Archaeologists working on the site since May last year say the six kerbstones identified so far would have formed part of a ring of stones that followed the cairn perimeter. One kerbstone is heavily decorated with Neolithic carvings and represents “one of the most impressive discoveries of megalithic art in Ireland for decades”, the archaeologists said. ‘Very exciting’ Devenish’s lead architect for the project, Dr Clíodhna Ní Lionáin, said that for the archaeologists involved in the discovery, it was “very exciting” and “truly the find of a lifetime”. She said the the team was working on the theory that the tomb could have been one of the earliest ones constructed in the area. “It’s a bit smaller than the more well-known monuments like Newgrange and Knowth. It’s around half the size of Newgrange but we think it might have been slightly earlier,” she said. “But of course we need to do further investigation and try to find material that we can date fairly precisely to be sure of that theory.” Dr Ní Lionáin said the people who built the tombs would probably have been “the children or grandchildren or great grandchildren of some of the first farmers in Ireland”. “In terms of designing these monuments, they were really good architects, engineers and also astronomers, because we often get alignments on various different solstices. And we can also see from what the art we have here they were amazing artists as well. Even though we don’t know what this art means, everyone who comes here is struck by this art.” Dr Steve Davis, of the UCD school of archaeology, said it was “the most significant” megalithic find in Ireland in the last 50 years. He said the spate of archaeological discoveries in Brú na Bóinne in recent weeks “highlights what a globally significant place this is”. A number of other significant archaeological sites were discovered at Brú na Bóinne just last Friday during a Government-commissioned aerial survey of the heritage site. A planning application to renovate Dowth Hall, one of the most important protected structures in the Brú na Bóinne area, was lodged by Dr Owen Brennan, executive chairman of Devenish, and his wife, Prof Alice Stanton, in 2016. The 18th-century house on the 430-acre estate will become the Brennan family home and they have said it will also be used as a venue for “stimulating discussion on sustainable agriculture and promoting human and environmental health”. ‘Hugely valuable’ Dr Brennan said Devenish had invested in the farm at Dowth because of its fertile soil, its location beside the Boyne and its beautiful landscape. “It is hugely valuable, and indeed core to our company’s science-based ethos, that we preserve and protect this major heritage site for future generations.” Minister for Heritage Josepha Madigan visited the site on Monday and said that “to know that this historic site will be preserved for future generations to see, understand and cherish is positive in every respect”. Dowth Hall and its lands will be open to the public on occasions throughout the year, including during Heritage Week, which runs from August 18th to 26th.
The camp grew from 368 shelters a year ago to 8,295 this month, Amnesty said. The group also released video footage, obtained by a tribal council whose activists operate in the area, that it said showed dozens of makeshift graves of refugees who had perished amid the desperate conditions. "The situation at the berm offers a grim snapshot of the consequences of the world's abject failure to share responsibility for the global refugee crisis," Tirana Hassan, Amnesty International's crisis response director, said in a statement. "It's a desperate picture for people trapped at the berm, food is running out and disease is rife. In some cases, people are suffering or even dying from preventable illnesses, simply because they are not allowed into Jordan and the authorities have blocked access for aid, medical treatment and a meaningful humanitarian response." Jordan has said it is hosting more than 1 million Syrians, about 650,000 of whom are officially registered as refugees with the United Nations. Over the past year, the kingdom has restricted the entry of Syrians, citing security concerns. Humanitarian aid to the berm, which was already limited, virtually ceased altogether after a suicide car bombing killed at least six members of Jordan's security forces in June, Amnesty said. Following the attack, Jordan designated border areas with Syria as "closed military zones" and sealed the al-Rukban border crossing. But Syrians continue to move to the area, fleeing bloodshed in their homeland's grinding five-year civil war. Jordan said it is keeping the refugees there for security reasons. "We are in continuous discussion with international aid agencies regarding this issue, and we continue to emphasize Jordan's legitimate security concerns, and the best way that aid can be delivered," said Mohammed al-Momani, Jordan's government spokesman. "We also emphasize that this is an international problem not Jordan's problem, and there are several options through which aid can be delivered without jeopardizing security concerns. This is becoming a Daesh enclave on our borders and the security of Jordanian people supersedes any other concern." The spokesman referred to ISIS as Daesh, another word for the terror group. Since then, one delivery of food aid has been made to the camp's tens of thousands of residents, with aid agencies, banned from entering the no's man land, required to drop supplies into the camp using cranes, Amnesty said. Amnesty said that refugees had reported miserable conditions in the camp, which intensified in the wake of the June attack. Poor hygiene and sanitation and limited supplies of clean water had led to a hepatitis outbreak, it said. "We agreed with international organizations on a one-time shipment of aid that can last for a whole month," Jordan's government spokesman said. "Jordan is the third poorest country of water in the world, yet we allow the flow of water continuously through tanks through international organizations. We also allow the treatment of patients." Amnesty said the lack of access to the camp made it difficult to verify the numbers of deaths. Jordan is one of the most active Arab members of the anti-ISIS coalition carrying out airstrikes on the terror group's targets in neighboring Syria and Iraq. The kingdom has had a high military presence along its borders with both countries, particularly since ISIS declared its so-called caliphate over parts of Syria and Iraq. Jordan and Syria's other neighbors have absorbed the bulk of the refugees from the civil war, with Turkey and Lebanon taking in the most.
As recently as 2010, only 3 percent of Cambodia’s domestically generated electricity came from hydropower. By 2016, hydropower was the source of 60 percent of it. The completion of the Lower Sesan II dam in Stung Treng province will give hydropower yet another boost. At full capacity, the $800 million project is designed to generate 400 megawatts of electricity, making it the biggest hydropower station in the country. Water levels began to rise in September 2017, when the dam’s floodgates were closed. In November 2017, the first turbine began to generate power. By October 2018, all eight turbines are expected to be operating. The Operational Land Imager (OLI) on the Landsat 8 satellite captured these before and after natural-color images of the dam and reservoir. They were built near the confluence of the Sesan River (Tonlé San in Cambodian) and Srepok River, both tributaries of the Mekong River. The first image was acquired on February 14, 2017; the second one shows the same area on February 1, 2018. The brown and light green areas in the first image, particularly those with straight edges, were likely cleared recently for timber; some of the smaller tan areas were crop fields near villages. Densely forested areas are green. In a country where only 50 percent of rural communities have access to the electrical grid, the boost in generating capacity will help with a government-led effort to bring electricity to all Cambodians by 2022. The project is also expected to reduce the cost of electricity. However, the dam and its 75 square-kilometer (29 square-mile) reservoir will also have significant impacts on communities near the river. Though some communities have resisted moving, rising waters have forced thousands of people to leave their villages. Scientists have cautioned that the Mekong Basin could see a 9 percent drop in the availability of fish. The dam is likely a harbinger of things to come. Plans are ongoing to add several more dams along the Mekong River and its tributaries, including two on the Mekong River that would dwarf this one. The Stung Treng dam would generate 900 megawatts and the Sambor Dam would generate 2,600 megawatts. NASA Earth Observatory images by Joshua Stevens, using Landsat data from the U.S. Geological Survey. Story by Adam Voiland. People from several villages had to relocate to make way for a new dam that will give the country’s supply of electricity a boost. ERIA (2016) Cambodia National Energy Statistics 2016. Accessed February 23, 2018. Institute of Water Policy A Case Study for Lower Sesan 2 Dam. Accessed February 23, 2018. Khmer Times (2017, February 1) EAC: 2017 electricity imports to fall. Accessed February 23, 2018. The Economist (2016, February 11) The Mekong. Accessed February 23, 2018. The Independent (2018, February 4) ‘Silent waterworld’ Cambodian village submerged by floodwater from Chinese-built dam. Accessed February 23, 2018. The Phnom Penh Post (2018, February 16) ‘Our pain is like an ocean.’ Accessed February 23, 2018. U.S. Energy Information Administration (2013, August 18) Chinese investments play large role in Southeast Asia hydroelectric growth. Accessed February 23, 2018. World Bank Electricity production from hydroelectric sources (% of total). Accessed February 23, 2018. Ziv, G. et al, (2012) Trading-off fish biodiversity, food security, and hydropower in the Mekong River Basin. PNAS, 109 (15), 5609-5614.
Recent winter storms in the UK have unearthed an ancient forest hidden beneath the English coastline for the past 7,000 years. Dozens of petrified tree stumps are now visible on the shoreline of the English town of Redcar, a reminder of just how drastically the landscape has changed over the course of several thousand years. The “Beast from the East” storm on February 26, followed by storm Emma on March 2, resulted in massive sand shifting in England. Although previous sand shifts have exposed the forest stumps in the past, residents of the town believe this is the most that the stumps have ever been exposed. The rare and fascinating sight caused tourists from all over to flock to the English seaside town to check out the ancient tree remains. However, according to Mark Malik, Communications Officer for the Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council, there’s no saying how long the remarkable stumps will remain visible. “It is expected they won’t be visible for very long as the tides will begin to wash sand back over them,” Malik told Newsweek . The forest dates back to the late Mesolithic period, also known as the Middle Stone Age. This time period is dated from 10,000 BCE to 8,000 BCE. In this time, humans began to enjoy warmer temperatures and the last ice age came to an end. Here, humans used archaic rock tools and continued the cave painting art that had begun in the previous Paleolithic Period. Tourists of all kinds have gathered to check out the sight. Redcar & Cleveland Borough Council It was also during this time that humans began to grow crops and domesticate animals. The wooden stumps of the ancient forest are petrified, meaning they have turned to stone and are considered a type of fossil. According to How Stuff Works, petrification occurs when groundwater flows through wood and other plants, and replace the original plant parts with different types of minerals. As a result, the wood becomes fossilized and looks nearly identical to the original form. The forest will likely be hidden again in time. Redcar & Cleveland Borough Council
The world’s most seemingly-toxic lakes are under threat. And they are also home to one of our most familiar birds: the flamingo. All flamingo species have evolved to live in some of the planet’s most extreme wetlands, like caustic “soda lakes”, hypersaline lagoons or high-altitude salt flats. One species, the lesser flamingo, has taken this relationship to the limit. Most are found in super-alkaline lakes throughout Africa’s Great Rift Valley, which host immense blooms of microscopic blue-green algae (called cyanobacteria). These poisonous plants produce chemicals that, in most animals, can fatally damage cells, the nervous system, and the liver. The lesser flamingo, however, can consume enormous amounts with no ill effects (unless you count their colourful plumage, which comes from a pigment in the algae). Birds in paradise Two of the lesser flamingo’s preferred habitats, Lake Bogoria in Kenya and Lake Natron in Tanzania, are hypersaline and hostile to practically all other forms of life (Natron water can even strip away human skin). For the flamingos this a bonus. Special tough skin and scales on their legs prevent burns, and they can drink water at near boiling point to collect freshwater from springs and geysers at lake edges. If no freshwater is available, flamingos can use glands in their head that remove salt, draining it out from their nasal cavity. With few other animals able to cope in such conditions, there is minimal competition for food, and these toxic wetlands are home to massive flocks. Million-strong gatherings provide several benefits. Mass synchronised nesting gives flamingos the best possible chance to raise the maximum number of chicks, while on choppy days a dense mass of birds swimming together also helps create the optimal feeding environment (still water) within the centre of the group. Sheer numbers also make it harder for predators like hyenas or jackals to identify individual victims. As such, a single flamingo is not a happy flamingo. The species is happiest in huge gatherings, and these won’t occur around any old lake – the lesser flamingo specifically needs its toxic, salty paradise. But these places are rare. Across the six flamingo species there are only 30 or so regularly used breeding sites worldwide and, while the global population of around 3.2m lesser flamingos is impressive, it is largely reliant on a few huge groups (about 75% nest at Lake Natron alone). What if something happens to one of their highly-specialised breeding sites? Unlike many other species that can still breed in smaller populations as their habitats become damaged, these birds cannot easily survive in small groups. Having evolved in such a hostile environment with few rivals, they would have trouble adapting to a more competitive lifestyle elsewhere. With most of their eggs in one toxic basket, the lesser flamingo is unusually vulnerable for a species with millions of individuals. Indeed, the number of lesser flamingos in the wild is already decreasing each year. And humans are to blame. Wetland habitats have been polluted by agricultural chemicals and sewage, feeding and breeding grounds have been disturbed, and declining algal blooms mean some populations are starving to death. Even a diet of toxic algae can’t save flamingos from ecological disturbances. If humans take too much water from a lake, or climate change causes excess evaporation, then salinity levels will become unstable. Populations of cyanobacteria can explode and the birds end up consuming new species which can poison them and cause mass deaths. Attempts to extract sodium carbonate (a useful industrial material known as soda ash) from Lake Natron represents another danger. Mining would disturb the birds, who like privacy when breeding and tend to nest far from shore, on remote islands that have been isolated by flooding. It would also make the water more choppy, affecting their food gathering. Given how slow flamingos are at adapting and changing to new nesting areas, any Natron development must be avoided. Anthropogenic disturbances have previously caused lesser flamingos to abandon suitable breeding sites, and back in 1993, polluted water in Lake Bogoria and nearby Nakuru killed more than 20,000 lesser flamingos – the first of a series of recurring deaths. The latest mining proposal has been withdrawn but such developments haven’t been completely shelved. Conservation groups remain alert. Monitoring and protecting the population at Lake Natron is the top priority for lesser flamingo conservation, according to a recent assessment by BirdLife International. Large-scale soda ash extraction, the report says, would be “disastrous for the species” and could see the flamingos become officially “vulnerable” or even “endangered”. The importance of these unique, and apparently hostile, wetlands is clear to see. Life in the Rift Valley lakes is a delicate balance. And it is clear that we are already harming these unique and fragile ecosystems. If humans were to cause drastic changes, their spectacular pink inhabitants would vanish forever. Paul Rose, Associate Fellow, Centre for Research in Animal Behaviour, University of Exeter This article was originally published on The Conversation.
Helicopters from the Air Corps were seen flying back and forward across the border last week as they responded to a request from the Northern Ireland Fire Service to assist in the efforts to put out huge gorse fires at Slieve Gullion in South Armagh. The fire burned for a number of days at the Slieve Gullion mountain, just two miles across the border from Louth. The blaze became extensive, covering around 100 acres and was burning close to a designated area of special specific interest. A spokesman for the Defence Forces confirmed on Tuesday last that they responded to a request from the Fire Service of Northern Ireland, deploying Air Corps assets to combat wildfires in the Slieve Gullion area. 'Thus far, over 90,000 litres of water has been dropped on the flames, making considerable inroads in controlling the blaze.' Minister with responsibility for Defence Paul Kehoe also confirmed that approval was given for Air Corps involvement following the request. The approval was granted following contact between the Defence Forces, the Department of Defence, the Department of Housing, Planning and Local Government and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. A spokesman said that DFAT officials had liaised with the British authorities to ensure 'all necessary permissions were in place for the Air Corps to cross the border.' The air corps helicopters caused a flurry of activity in the skies over Dundalk as they landed at Aiken Barracks to refuel during their cross border efforts and took off again to head northwards across the border. The Argus understands that the air corps drew water from Carlingford Lough and Camlough Lake in South Armagh to carry and drop over the huge blaze. The massive cross border campaign, and the return of some rainy conditions in the middle of last week helped to quell the flames. Minister Kehoe said the Air Corps remained on standby to respond to requests for assistance with fires caused by the hot weather. 'This deployment is the latest example of how our Defence Forces and Air Corps are assisting other agencies to ensure communities are kept safe.' The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service confirmed its own extensive efforts to tackle the huge blaze which was visible from roads north of Dundalk. Fire crews battled the fires with four appliances, specialist wildlife resources and all-terrain vehicles are at the scene.
Until this week, all of the wind power generated in the United States was on land. But in a first for America, the ocean breeze is now generating clean, renewable power offshore — electricity that will supply a small island community off the coast of Rhode Island. Renewable energy, including from offshore wind, is crucial to the effort to avoid some of the worst effects of climate change, according to environmentalists and some elected officials. On Monday, the country’s first offshore wind farm, developed by a company called Deepwater Wind and helped along by the state’s political leadership, started spinning its turbines to bring electricity to Block Island, a vacation destination with few year-round residents that had previously relied on diesel-fueled generators for power. “This is a historic milestone for reducing our nation’s dependence on fossil fuels, and I couldn’t be more thrilled that it’s happening here in the Ocean State,” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island and co-founder of the Senate Climate Action Task Force, said in a statement from Deepwater Wind. Though the Block Island Wind Farm is small — made up of five turbines, which were built by a division of General Electric, and capable of powering about 17,000 homes — it is the first successful offshore wind development in the United States, and it sets up the possibility for offshore wind projects elsewhere along the coast. According to a spokeswoman for Deepwater Wind, about 90 percent of the island’s needs will be met by the wind-generated power, and more will go back to the grid. Current estimates are that the wind farm will supply 1 percent of the state’s electricity, the spokeswoman said. Despite its modest size, the wind farm, which cost about $300 million to build, still represents a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions — about 40,000 tons per year. Deepwater Wind will receive a federal tax credit for the project, and first-year rates for Rhode Island customers of National Grid, the utility company laying one of the cables to the wind farm, may be higher than what customers currently pay. Environmentalists, members of the Obama administration and government officials in several states see significant potential for offshore wind energy, given that winds over the ocean usually blow stronger and more steadily than those on land. Earlier this year, the Obama administration announced a lease for a wind farm off the coast of Long Island, and the Department of Energy has said that if wind farms were built in all of the suitable areas, including in the Great Lakes, they could provide up to twice as much electricity as the country now uses. In the past, offshore wind farms have faced significant opposition in the United States for a few reasons: high costs, complicated rules about who gets to build on the seafloor and what they build, and complaints from people who do not want their ocean view obstructed. In Europe, however, thousands of wind turbines have sprouted up along the coast, and an additional 3,000 megawatts of wind power were added last year (about 100 times the amount of power provided by the Block Island Wind Farm). There has been some opposition to offshore wind projects in Europe, including from President-elect Donald J. Trump, who unsuccessfully fought to block construction of a wind farm off the coast of Scotland near one of his golf courses. Mr. Trump has expressed skepticism of wind power, saying in an interview with The New York Times that “the wind is a very deceiving thing.” And an email written by Thomas J. Pyle, who is running the Department of Energy transition for the president-elect, said that the Trump administration might be looking to get rid of all energy subsidies. Mr. Trump has also been accused of exaggerating the harmful effects of wind turbines on bird populations, which Mr. Pyle also addressed in the email, writing, “Unlike before, wind energy will rightfully face increasing scrutiny from the federal government.”
The Peruvian rainforest isn't what it used to be. Land that just a couple of years ago was covered in the thick foliage of the Amazon jungle has been given over to oil palms. Row upon row, as far as the eye can see. From above, these lucrative trees might give the impression of vast areas of healthy green, but close up, virtually nothing grows between one trunk and another. The indigenous plants are gone, and with them, the animals for whom they provided food and habitat. The fruit of palms provides oil used in a vast range of products — from cosmetics to biofuel, potato chips and sandwich spread — all over the world. Read more: Palm oil is the planet's most widely consumed vegetable oil The situation is particularly drastic in the Ucayali region. Some 13,000 hectares have been cleared for monocultures — largely oil palm and cocoa — in recent years. That's more than anywhere else in the country. Locals living in the heart of the Amazon jungle talk in terms of a massive sell-off that has violently disrupted their once-peaceful lives. Investigating how this massive shift in land use came about, Proética, the Peruvian arm of the anti corruption NGO Transparency International, repeatedly came across the name of Dennis Melka, a Czech-US investor. They connect Melka, who made a fortune with palm oil in Malaysia, to a network of 25 companies in which he plays many different roles. The so-called "Melka Group" is complex. According to Proética, the firms in it change their names, are shut down and split up as part of a strategy to get a hold of as much land as possible. "There is a connection between deforestation, illegal land trade and the corruption of officials," Magaly Avila who runs the climate policy program at Proética, told DW. When she and her colleagues began to explore exactly how the rights to such large areas of land are allocated in Peru, their conclusion was corruption. Smoke, mirrors and lies In a report on their findings, Proética said there had been a significant spike in the number of land rights documents regional authorities awarded to private people in Ucayali between 2011 and 2014. A total of 3,500 certificates were granted during that period. Proética also identified a strategy used by large companies. Politicians who were bribed by companies had often promised land rights to private individuals who then, acting as middle men, sold them on until they were in the hands of the firms. Elsewhere, valid land rights were taken away and farmers were persuaded under false pretences to sell up. Read more: Despite EU palm oil ban, biofuel problems will continue "They told me if I didn't sell my land, the state would take it away from me," farmer Walter Muñoz Quiroz said. "They justified it by saying I was not cultivating all the land they'd given me in the way I should have. I didn't know what to do, and I was afraid." Quiroz ended up selling his land under value. He received around 25 euros ($30) per hectare. Only later did he find out that he was not required to farm his land in a particular way, and that he had been lied to. But it was too late. His land was gone. Palm oil plantations as a "national interest" In the year 2000, the Peruvian government declared palm oil plantations a "national interest," both because they were seen as an alternative to coca, which as in Bolivia and Columbia, is a dominant crop in Peru, and because of impending fuel-mix legislation under which diesel would be required to contain 5 percent plant oil. Policymakers planned 50,000 hectares of plantations. But there are now 80,000, and Oxfam fears that by 2021, oil palm monocultures could cover 250,000 of the 1.4 million hectares that offer the right conditions for the crop's growth. To prevent indigenous communities from becoming overrun by these developments, Proética communicates with members of the judiciary and government representatives and holds workshops for local populations. "We want to explain the processes to those who are affected, so we can help them to protect themselves in the future," Magaly Avila says. Read more: Orangutan population plunges due to hunting and deforestation One of their workshops was held at Santa Clara de Uchunya, a 200-strong indigenous community on the frontline of the simmering conflict. The Melka oil palm plantations are visible at the far side of the Rio Ucayali, on land the local population once used for hunting. It is now closed to them entirely. Residents of Santa Clara are asking the regional government for 20,000 hectares of forest they regard as their ancestral lands. They are supported in their struggle not only by Proética but also Robert Guimaraes, president of Federation of Indigenous Communities, who says his fight against palm oil and cocoa companies has put him at serious risk. "I've received many death threats," Guimaraes says. Others in Santa Clara say violence is not uncommon. They talk about threats, attacks and even murders in the context of the land conflict. In December 2017, six farmers were found shot dead in a field. There has been no official verdict on whether they were killed for their resistance to palm oil giants, but people come to their own conclusions. "The culprits were locals paid by the respective companies," one inhabitant told DW. "If you offer enough money, you'll always find someone." No solution in sight Despite the climate of violence, the population of Santa Clara de Uchunya is determined to keep fighting until the government awards them the land rights that would save their jungle from complete destruction. But given that palm oil demand has increased three-fold since 2002 — to a global consumption of around 62.6 million tons — and how lucrative it is for the Peruvian government, that could be a long time coming. While they wait, the indigenous community lives with the fear of losing more of their forest. That would pose a very real danger to their way of life. As the village chief, Carlos Hoyos, put it, "an indigenous community is nothing without its land."
A time lapse video covering two hours shows the carnage with local resident Artyom Zarubin commenting: ‘The hill on the right bank of the Amur continues to burn. ‘Now the fire moves only in one direction, towards the village of Belgo.’ Locals say the authorities have failed to tackle the fires - with smoke fumes stifling the Far East city. Video courtesy Artyom Zarubin City community citykms.ru posted several pictures with the caption: ‘We watched the taiga burning on the right bank; there were no attemps to extinguish the inferno from helicopters or planes. ‘Today the city turned into a smoky hell.' Anna Drekachenko in comments said: 'I live surrounded by constant wildfires (with) smoke, and toxic pollution from an oil processing plant.’ ‘Now the hill right opposite the city on the other bank of Amur River is on fire.’ She says fires have been raging in the vicinity for a month, and accused the authorities of ‘impotence’. Another resident posted pictures of burning fields. Wildfires inferno in the Far East of Russia. Pictures: Artryom Zarubin, Ogoron, Korban Krot, Snezhana Smakotina A train driver filmed how his train on the Baikal Amur Mainline was confronted by burning forest - graphically highlighting the catastrophic situation as the wildfire season grips eastern Russia. ‘We live and work in such complicated circumstances’, he commented. The video was believed to have been filmed in the same Amur region near Tynda. Newspaper Amurskaya Pravda reported: 'The Amur region is living in emergency mode. ‘The fire is coming very close to the facilities of Russian Railways.’ Firefighting trains were sent out to douse the flames near the tracks. On May 10, the fire approached Ulyanovskiy stroitel station.
A British Columbia Supreme Court judge has granted Trans Mountain an interim injunction aimed at preventing anti-pipeline activists from protesting construction at two terminals in Burnaby. The company listed 15 individuals, along with John Doe, Jane Doe and "persons unnamed" in a notice of civil claim as part of its request to restrict protesters from coming within 50 metres of the facilities. Justice Kenneth Affleck agreed with that condition Friday and said the injunction will last until Wednesday, when a hearing on the matter will continue. Casey Leggett, a lawyer for one of the named people, had challenged the 50-metre request, saying that would cover a road near the Westridge Marine Terminal, where people should be allowed to walk or protest peacefully without fearing they'll be arrested. "It's going too far, it's arbitrary," Leggett said at a hearing where the judge warned applauding protesters to keep quiet. Kyle Friesen, a lawyer representing the RCMP, said the force doesn't want to squelch anyone's right to protest, but a restricted area is needed to create a barrier so gatherings are peaceful, lawful and safe, especially if trees are falling to clear land for construction. Calgary-based Trans Mountain said in the notice of claim that protesters have obstructed roads it requires to access the Westridge Marine Terminal in order to build a new dock complex with three berths. It said activists have also obstructed workers at the Burnaby Terminal, where it plans to install 14 new storage tanks, an enhanced storm water treatment system as well as clear trees, for which it has received approvals as part of a $7.4-billion expansion of an existing pipeline that is operated by Kinder Morgan and runs between Edmonton and Metro Vancouver. Protesters have caused delays and financial harm to Trans Mountain nearly every day since the end of November with a goal to stop the entire project, the company said. Leggett wanted the judge to adjourn Friday's hearing until Wednesday, saying Trans Mountain filed a late application, giving him and a lawyer for another individual little time to review affidavits filed by the company. He suggested that while Trans Mountain has cited costly delays due to blockades for wanting a hasty hearing, the aim was to bring the matter to court before Saturday, when an Indigenous-led march against the pipeline expansion is planned in Burnaby. Maureen Killoran, a lawyer for Trans Mountain, said the application is based on time-sensitive work being done at the Westridge Marine Terminal before migratory birds that could use the area return in the spring. The City of Burnaby and the City of Vancouver have opposed the project, which would triple the capacity of the pipeline and increase tanker traffic seven-fold. Ruth Leibik, who is named in the notice of civil claim, said she decided to start protesting at the Westridge Marine Terminal a few months ago. "The people who are named with me in this injunction are people of great conscience, people who are aware, peaceful, and people who are standing up for what our courts and what our politicians have not been able to stand up for," she said. Leibik said she will be a marshal in the anti-pipeline march on Saturday, when she said people from across North America are expected to gather in Burnaby to oppose what she called "an atrocity." On the same day, groups including Rally for Resources, Generation Squeezed and Rally for Resources are planning a pro-pipeline rally in Vancouver.
DOON, Iowa — An estimated 230,000 gallons (870,619 liters) of crude oil spilled into floodwaters in the northwestern corner of Iowa following a train derailment, a railroad official said Saturday. BNSF spokesman Andy Williams said 14 of 32 oil tanker cars just south of Doon in Lyon County leaked oil into surrounding floodwaters from the swollen Little Rock River. Williams had earlier said 33 oil cars had derailed. Nearly half the spill — an estimated 100,000 gallons (378,530 liters) — had been contained with booms near the derailment site and an additional boom placed approximately 5 miles (8.05 kilometers) downstream, Williams said. Skimmers and vacuum trucks were being used to remove the oil. Crews will then use equipment to separate the oil from the water. "In addition to focusing on the environmental recovery, ongoing monitoring is occurring for any potential conditions that could impact workers and the community and so far have found no levels of concern," Williams said. Officials still hadn't determined the cause of Friday morning's derailment, but a disaster proclamation issued by Gov. Kim Reynolds for Lyon and three other counties placed the blame on rain-fueled flooding. Reynolds visited the derailment site Saturday afternoon as part of a tour of areas hit by recent flooding. Some officials have speculated that floodwaters eroded soil beneath the train track. The nearby Little Rock River rose rapidly after heavy rain Wednesday and Thursday. A major part of the cleanup work includes building a temporary road parallel to the tracks to allow in cranes that can remove the derailed and partially-submerged oil cars. Williams said officials hoped to reach the cars Saturday. The train was carrying tar sands oil from Alberta, Canada, to Stroud, Oklahoma, for ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips spokesman Daren Beaudo said each tanker can hold more than 25,000 gallons (20,817 imperial gallons) of oil. Beaudo said Saturday that the derailed oil cars were a model known as DOT117Rs, indicating they were newer or had been retrofitted to be safer and help prevent leaks in the event of an accident. The derailment also caused concern downstream, including as far south as Omaha, Nebraska, about 150 miles (240 kilometers) from the derailment site. The spill reached the Rock River, which joins the Big Sioux River before merging into the Missouri River at Sioux City. Omaha's public water utility — Metropolitan Utilities District — said it was monitoring pumps it uses to pull drinking water from the Missouri River. Rock Valley, Iowa, just southwest of the derailment, shut off its water wells within hours of the accident. It plans to drain and clean its wells and use a rural water system until testing shows its water is safe. For the latest information about the derailment: https://bit.ly/2K1wIAZ This story has been corrected to show that 32 oil tanker cars derailed, not 33.
As the tiny island destroyed by a hurricane tries to rebuild, the PM of neighboring Antigua aims to revoke centuries-old rights Nearly four months after Hurricane Irma devastated the tiny Caribbean island of Barbuda, residents fear the central government on neighbouring Antigua is poised to revoke a centuries-old system of communal land rights in what activists have described as “disaster capitalism” at work. Since emancipation from slavery in 1834, Barbudans have governed their land in common, without private ownership. But the Antigua and Barbuda government says that change is necessary to rebuild the island. The prime minister, Gaston Browne, has pushed for the change since the Category 5 storm hit in September, arguing that freehold tenure is the only way to finance Barbuda’s reconstruction, where half of the island’s 1,250 structures are severely damaged or destroyed. He is likely to get his way on 28 December, when parliament is expected to amend legislation that codified the 200-year-old tradition of communal ownership. Browne has dismissed the law as “illegal” and a “myth”. Under the existing law, all land on Barbuda is owned communally and land parcels cannot be bought and sold. Residents and their descendants can identify parcels for new agricultural, residential, or commercial development and confirm their claim with the democratically elected, 11-member Barbuda council. Browne’s proposed amendment would eliminate that system and establish private, freehold land ownership. “Antigua and Barbuda is a unitary state,” Browne told the Guardian in November . “You will never see anything in the constitution of Antigua and Barbuda speaking to any ownership of any land in common. It does not exist in the constitution so you cannot pass a law that supersedes the constitution. But Barbudan activists view the change as an effort to develop their island for mass tourism as in neighboring Antigua. Barbuda’s 1,600 people live in a single settlement, Codrington, while the rest of the 63-square-mile island has largely been left to its natural state of mangroves and scrub brush. In constrast, tourism dominates 109-square-mile Antigua (population 80,000), from all-inclusive resorts to a downtown cruise port. In an interview, Browne dismissed such concerns as the work of “a handful of deracinated imbeciles [who] are creating this problem”. Three years ago, actor Robert de Niro and Australian billionaire James Packersigned a $6.45m lease with the government for a 391-acre mega-resort on Barbuda. Most Barbudans are sheltering on Antigua following a mandatory evacuation when Hurricane Jose passed near the island in September. About 350 people have returned, but they continue to live off humanitarian aid without reliable access to power and running water. Only one shop is open, and the local primary school is in ruins. Browne announced his proposals to end the existing system just one week after the storm, but held no formal consultations with Barbudans. Since the November interview, his office has not responded to further questions. “The matter affects Barbudans deeply,” said secondary school principal John Mussington. “Land is the seat of resources and it is the resources which people use to make their daily livelihoods.” Many Barbudans supplement their incomes by hunting and fishing. Human rights lawyer Leslie Thomas filed an emergency injunction against the new law, but judgment has been reserved until at least January. If the amendment passes as expected, legal challenges are likely to follow, with the ultimate court of appeals the Privy Council. Meanwhile, foreign governments who have pledged millions towards recovery are unwilling to get involved. DfID, which pledged £3m ($4m), referred the question to the Caribbean Development Bank, which will implement a $29m recovery project. “We will continue to monitor developments with regard to the issue of freehold title, in the context of the entire recovery effort,” a bank spokesman said. Canada, which pledged $78m to the Caribbean, also referred to the land issue as an “internal matter”. The European Union, which pledged €300m ($360m) to the region, declined to comment. “Western governments are proving slow to grasp that land rights are a basic human right in land-dependent economies that communities will rightly fight to the death for,” independent land tenure expert Liz Alden Wily told the Guardian. “Any donor which idly lets its donation for disaster relief be used to dispossess vulnerable populations is party to a violation of human rights and will in due course be held to account for this.” Travel for this story was supported by the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting. Copyright © Source (mentioned above). All rights reserved. The Land Portal distributes materials without the copyright owner’s permission based on the “fair use” doctrine of copyright, meaning that we post news articles for non-commercial, informative purposes. If you are the owner of the article or report and would like it to be removed, please contact us at hello@landportal.info and we will remove the posting immediately. Various news items related to land governance are posted on the Land Portal every day by the Land Portal users, from various sources, such as news organizations and other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. The copyright lies with the source of the article; the Land Portal Foundation does not have the legal right to edit or correct the article, nor does the Foundation endorse its content. To make corrections or ask for permission to republish or other authorized use of this material, please contact the copyright holder.
Amazing the difference a little rain makes. Wait -- a little? No -- a lot. Virtually all of California is enjoying its wettest winter in five years. In fact, current statistical reports on rainfall and the water content of the Sierra Nevada snowpack show that so far, we're in the midst of one of the wettest California rainy seasons on record. All the precipitation has transformed a state that suffered through five years of severe drought. One of the most visible effects: high levels of the state's major reservoirs. Below are comparative views of three of those massive storage facilities: Folsom Lake, on the American River about 25 miles northeast of downtown Sacramento; Shasta Lake, the state's largest reservoir, just north of Redding; and San Luis Reservoir (bottom), near the town of Los Banos in the San Joaquin Valley. We've chosen satellite images from San Francisco-based Planet Labs that illustrate the reservoirs near their drought low points and as they've appeared this month. Additional notes on each of the reservoirs below. Instructions: Each image contains a slider bar (a gray vertical line with arrows on each side) in the center. Click on the center of the bar and drag it right or left to see views of each reservoir a) near its drought low point and b) after recent rains. Folsom Lake is the state's 11th-largest reservoir with a capacity just under 1 million acre-feet. The reservoir was filled for the first time in 1955. In late 2015, the drought reduced Folsom to its lowest level ever. In wet years, reservoir managers are often required to release water to maintain space for potential floodwaters. In fact, the volume of water in Folsom has dropped 40 percent over the past two weeks even as heavy runoff continues to cascade down the American River. See current Folsom Lake storage information. Shasta Lake, California's largest reservoir at 4.5 million acre-feet, captures the flows of three major Northern California rivers: the Sacramento, the McCloud and the Pit. The lake, behind Shasta Dam, was filled in the late 1940s. It reached its all-time low during the drought of 1976-77. Its lowest point during the recent drought was recorded late in 2014. See current Shasta Lake storage. San Luis Reservoir, with a capacity of about 2 million acre-feet, is a joint state-federal facility built in the 1960s to help manage supplies from two sources: the State Water Project's California Aqueduct and the federal Central Valley Project. It's a key storage point for farms in the San Joaquin Valley and for urban water districts in Southern California. It reached its drought nadir in late 2015. See current San Luis Reservoir storage.
California's "frozen reservoir" is already melting. With California locked in the embrace of unseasonably dry weather and high temperatures, water content of the Sierra snowpack is currently 22 percent of the long-term average for early February. That's less than it was on this date in 2015, in the most dismal depths of California's five-year drought. In these three graphic sliders of satellite images from Yosemite, Tahoe, and Mammoth Lakes, you can see the dramatic difference in the snowpack — a key source of water for the state — from just a year ago. The contrast is especially sharp versus this time last year, when record January snows had engorged the snowpack to 177 percent of "normal." Experts say it’s too soon for hand-wringing over another drought; the state's major reservoirs are still full, thanks to last winter's relentless rains. “The water that you have in storage is coming off a good year," says meteorologist Jan Null. "That mitigates the fact that we’ve had an arguably abysmal precipitation year." We’re not in a position where we were a couple of years ago, with widespread shortages," he adds, though Null concedes that water supply can vary dramatically from place to place, depending on local sources. “Certain areas may only get what they store locally," Null says. "The manager of a water district that doesn’t have multiple water sources, for example, might be looking at possible actions this summer."
The system’s seven sites are a significant habitat for threatened species, including sea turtles, manatees, and marine crocodiles. UNESCO has announced that the Belize Barrier Reef Reserve System, which it added to the World Heritage List in 1996, has been removed from its list of ‘sites in danger.’ The system contains the largest barrier reef in the northern hemisphere, offshore atolls popular with divers, hundreds of sandy cayes, estuaries, stretches of mangrove forest, and coastal lagoons. The system’s seven sites are a significant habitat for threatened species, including sea turtles, manatees, and marine crocodiles. Previously, there was concern that the system was likely to be damaged and degraded, but early this year the Mesoamerican Reef as a whole received an improving bill of health from the Healthy Reefs for Healthy People Initiative. In addition, recent moves that the country of Belize has taken, such as the imposition of a moratorium on offshore drilling in late 2017, encouraged the committee. Likewise, the Committee noted that the strengthening of forestry regulations that protect mangrove forests was a factor – mangroves help keep coastal waters clean and thereby improve the health of nearby coral reefs. They also harbor high levels of biodiversity and sequester much carbon from the atmosphere. As Mongabay reported in 2017, protecting mangroves is widely supported, including by business owners in the top coastal tourist destination of Amergris Caye, which depends on healthy reefs to draw visitors. Merchants and others pointed out that the island can and should have both extensive mangroves and a healthy economy, including new development if it’s done right and doesn’t remove large areas of trees. The site was added to UNESCO’s list of sites in danger in 2009 due to the destruction of mangrove forests and marine ecosystems, the looming threat of offshore oil extraction, and unsustainable coastal development. Banner image: Part of the healthy reef system offshore of Ambergris Caye. Photo by Erik Hoffner for Mongabay FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post.
PHOENIX — The Border Patrol raided a humanitarian aid group’s base camp in the Southern Arizona desert on Thursday and arrested four men who had crossed into the United States illegally, officials with Customs and Border Protection said. Volunteers with the group, No More Deaths, which gives water and first-aid care to migrants, said the men were from Mexico and were receiving emergency medical care at the camp, which had been raided by agents in the past. But this was the first time border agents had used a search warrant to gain entry, the group said in a statement, suggesting a change in strategy by the Border Patrol leadership in the region at a time when temperatures are soaring. Despite a history of tense relations with No More Deaths, the agency had previously abided by an informal, Obama-era agreement allowing migrants to seek medical help at the camp without fear of arrest. In an interview on Friday, the group’s founder, John Fife, characterized the raid as “clearly a strategy by the border agents to cripple and even make moot the lifesaving mission of a medical facility they had agreed to respect.” His fear, he said, is that word would get out among migrants seeking help that the No More Deaths camp is no longer safe, because of border agents’ attention on it. Several volunteer groups leave jugs of water and canned food for migrants and provide them with medical aid, but No More Deaths is one of the largest and the only one in Arizona with a permanent base in the desert. In a statement released after the raid on Thursday, Customs and Border Protection, which is the parent agency of the Border Patrol, said the agents were left with no choice after the volunteers refused to let them in “to question the four suspected illegal aliens as to their citizenship and legal right to be present in the United States.” “Tucson Sector Border Patrol reached out to No Más Muertes camp representatives to continue a positive working relationship and resolve the situation amicably,” the statement said, referring to the group by its name in Spanish. “The talks, however, were unsuccessful.” Customs and Border Protection provided some details about the four men on Friday. In a statement, the agency said three of them were arrested in the camp and one was arrested while trying to escape. One of these men was identified as Lucindo Díaz-Hernández, who had a prior felony conviction for drug possession and had spent five years in prison in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, for drug trafficking. He also had been previously deported. The raid also disrupted the group’s operations as temperatures, already in the triple digits, are expected to reach 120 degrees on Monday, raising the risk of death by dehydration among migrants who increasingly are crossing through desolate corners of the Southern Arizona desert to avoid detection. It is not the first time No More Deaths and Border Patrol have clashed; volunteers have accused agents of vandalizing the water and food supplies they leave for migrants. In 2011, a motion-activated camera captured an agent kicking five jugs lined up on a rock, dumping the water inside. Volunteers said that, in recent months, they have noticed more agents roaming the dirt roads around the camp, which is near Arivaca, an unincorporated community in a well-known drug- and human-smuggling route. Three weeks earlier, a similar situation to Thursday’s raid had resulted in a different outcome. Agents had threatened to go in with a search warrant if a group of migrants did not surrender, which they did. Afterward, Mr. Fife, a retired Presbyterian minister known for his work in the 1980s to provide safe haven to Central Americans escaping civil conflict, said he reached out to the Border Patrol Tucson Sector, a regional division in charge of safeguarding most of the Arizona-Mexico border. He had wanted to make sure the informal agreement, which was brokered in the fall of 2013 with the regional division’s then-chief patrol agent, was still in place. An unsigned copy of the document, provided by No More Deaths to The New York Times, says volunteers would be protected from threats of arrest or citation, and that the medical aid they provide would be “recognized and respected by government agents, and should be protected from surveillance and interference.” According to Mr. Fife, the “good-faith agreement” was reaffirmed during a meeting in April with Felix Chavez, the Tucson Sector’s interim chief. But then the agents showed up at the camp earlier this week. They set up a checkpoint at the entrance and stopped every vehicle that came out and asked everyone inside about their citizenship status, said Maryada Vallet, one of the group’s volunteers. Since 2001, the Pima County Medical Examiner’s Office has recovered more than 2,600 remains from unidentified migrants who died in the Arizona desert. Historically, such recoveries peak during the warmer months. According to the office’s annual report, 48 of the 154 remains found last year were discovered in June and July. Volunteers for No More Deaths and other humanitarian groups locate human remains on average once every three days in the Southern Arizona desert. They argue that border enforcement policies have pushed migrants farther into the desert, away from the camp or any place else where they might be able to seek help. Mr. Chavez, the interim chief, vehemently disagreed. During a meeting with several of these groups in April, he said it is “the criminal organization, these ruthless smugglers, who these people are turning their lives over to that is putting them into the desert.”
Executives at the world’s most ambitious “clean coal” plant knew for years about serious design flaws and budget problems but sought to withhold key information from regulators before their plans collapsed, according to documents obtained by the Guardian. The Kemper plant in Mississippi – held up as the global model for a new generation of “clean coal” power plants – was the most expensive fossil fuel power plant in US history, with a $7.5bn price tag. Its owners, Southern Company, boasted it was “going to be the cleanest coal plant in the world”, in the words of the CEO, Tom Fanning. But thousands of internal documents reviewed by the Guardian and a series of interviews with Kemper staff uncovered evidence that the company had information showing that the project would blow through state-imposed budget limits five years before the company decided to reverse course and become an exclusively gas-fired energy plant. Kemper’s failure could be a serious setback for global climate policy and plans to reach the Paris climate targets. International climate agreements rely heavily on developing practical carbon capture technologies that have so far largely proved elusive. Kemper was slated to be the largest coal carbon capture plant ever built, touted as potentially the first of many similar projects worldwide. The documents show that Kemper’s design faced what proved to be an insurmountable issue: it required vastly more maintenance downtime than originally predicted, and according to one 2014 report would be offline 45% of its first five years rather than the 25% the company had publicly projected. Those figures doomed Kemper’s “clean coal” plans by raising its lifetime costs dramatically. The company had this information three years before it told regulators it was reversing course and planned to run the plant on natural gas. Southern nonetheless pushed forward, sinking nearly $3bn more into construction. Experts have long warned that the biggest challenge for clean coal power is affordability – adding so-called carbon capture technology, which captures carbon dioxide emissions produced from the use of fossil fuels, requires expensive equipment and saps energy that could otherwise be sold to power customers. For years, Kemper, built in America’s lowest-income state, was marketed as proof that American innovation could show the world that clean coal technology made economic sense. Inside Southern, however, Kemper’s prospects looked very different. Documents obtained by the Guardian show: In 2010, before a shovel was turned, a top executive expressed doubts to his inner circle that Kemper could be built within limits demanded by Mississippi regulators. The company knew in early 2012 that Kemper was headed far over budget limits. A top Kemper official sought to hide damaging projections from independent monitors, around the time that state officials had the opportunity to cancel the project. Fanning, Southern’s CEO, reassured investors that he could come in under budget despite overwhelming evidence that the company would never make it. In a 2013 earnings call, Fanning touted a huge coal storage dome as “in place” and a sign of “tremendous” construction progress. Company files show the dome had in fact started crumbling inside months earlier, ultimately opening up a hole in the ceiling the size of a small house – a problem so bad the dome had to be razed and rebuilt later that year. Kemper, which received roughly $400m from taxpayers, managed to produce electricity from some of its clean coal equipment for “over 100 hours”, or roughly five days last June, before construction was shuttered for good amid further budget blowouts. Before it ran aground, Kemper drew support from Obama and Trump administration figures alike. Trump has been particularly outspoken about his support of “clean coal”, which he praised as “beautiful” in this year’s State of the Union address. Last August, the Department of Energy announced $50m in possible funding for projects to develop “transformational coal technologies”. Southern, the country’s second-largest electrical utility, received over $380m from the Department of Energy on the condition that the project could generate affordable electricity, on schedule. But it does not appear to be under any immediate pressure to repay the money. It maintains close ties to top Trump administration officials. Rick Perry, described by Bloomberg as an “old friend” of Fanning, now helms the energy department as it navigates calls to “claw back” federal funds spent on Kemper. The US attorney general, Jeff Sessions, counts Southern and its law firm Balch and Bingham as his top two career donors, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics. Sessions, the country’s top law enforcement officer, has previously rebuffed calls to recuse himself from other matters involving that law firm. Southern’s other mega-project, the Vogtle nuclear power plant in Georgia, was offered $3.7bn in federal loan guarantees in September, despite being five years behind schedule and $10bn over budget, according to watchdog groups. Late last year, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mothballed an investigation into allegations the company concealed schedule delays, uncovered by a New York Times investigation in 2016, without sanctioning the company or clearing it of wrongdoing, leaving the door open to further investigation. The new materials offer evidence of a much broader range of potential misconduct than previously revealed. The SEC declined to comment. Southern faces a continuing class action alleging the company failed to disclose “adverse information” in 2012 and 2013 and other lawsuits brought by shareholders and power customers over Kemper. A Southern spokesman declined to comment on specific questions about Kemper, instead pointing to a settlement last month with state regulators and tax legislation, which he said would lower customers’ power bills. He also cited the “continued operation of Kemper’s efficient natural gas facility”.
Six months before a dam containing millions of litres of mining waste collapsed, killing 19 people in Brazil’s worst environmental disaster, the company operating the mine accurately predicted the potential impact of such a disaster in a worst-case risk assessment. But federal prosecutors claim the company – a joint venture between the Brazilian mining giant Vale and the Anglo-Australian multinational BHP Billiton – failed to take actions that they say could have prevented the disaster. The prosecutors instead claim the company focused on cutting costs and increasing production. “They prioritized profits and left safety in second place,” said José Adércio Sampaio, coordinator of a taskforce of federal prosecutors, summarising the criminal case against the joint venture and its parent companies. When the Fundão tailings dam failed on 5 November 2015, it unleashed about 40m litres of water and sediment from iron ore extraction in a wave that polluted the water supply for hundreds of thousands of people, decimated wildlife and spewed a rust-red plume of mud down the Doce river. Yet more than two years later, nobody has accepted responsibility. Previously unreported internal documents from the joint venture Samarco show that six months before the collapse, the company carried out a worst-case assessment of the dam, near Mariana in Minas Gerais state. The document – one of hundreds submitted to the court by prosecutors – warned that a maximum possible loss from a “liquification break” could mean up to 20 deaths, cause serious impacts to land, water resources and biodiversity over 20 years, and cost $3.4bn. The prosecutors’ complaint also includes harrowing accounts by survivors from Bento Rodrigues, a small community obliterated by the mud released in the disaster. Wesley Izabel managed to save his two-year-old son, Nicolas, but his daughter, Emanuelle, five, slipped from his fingers to her death. When the mud engulfed her house, Darcy Santos heard her grandson Thiago, seven, cry “help me, Jesus!” before he was suffocated. In 2016, 21 people were charged with qualified homicide, including Samarco’s former CEO and representatives from Vale and BHP Billiton on its board of directors. All the defendants and three companies were also charged with environmental damage. A separate civil action by prosecutors seeking $48bn in damages was launched in 2016 and is still being negotiated. In January last year, prosecutors and the three companies signed a preliminary deal worth $680m to guarantee recuperation work. In statements to the Guardian, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton said they rejected the charges, that safety had been and remained a priority and that the dam complied with Brazilian legislation. The companies have separately said they would defend their employees and executives. Separately from the civil action, the three companies made a deal with the federal and state governments in March 2016 to carry out repair, restoration and reconstruction programmes. They have spent more than $1bn on a huge clean-up and relief operation, separate from civil actions launched by prosecutors. Samarco has also paid about $6.7m in fines levied separately by the state government of Minas Gerais – but none of the 24 fines totalling $105m imposed by the Brazilian government’s environment agency, Ibama. “Samarco believes there are technical and juridical aspects in the decisions that need to be re-evaluated,” the company said in a statement. None of the 375 families who lost their homes have yet been rehoused. “It is a lot of injustice,” said Sandra Quintão, 45, whose small restaurant in Bento Rodrigues was swallowed by the mud. Until the disaster, Samarco was a Brazilian success story. In 2014, despite falling international iron prices, it declared a net profit of $1.3bn. But prosecutors allege that its directors encouraged the company to keep cutting costs. According to minutes from an August 2015 board meeting, which were included in the legal proceedings, company directors said: “Despite the improvements in cost reduction the world is not standing still and further improvements are needed.” The importance of safety was also stressed at board meetings. At a meeting in August 2012, the board praised Samarco’s safety performance and said the company should “maintain its focus on eliminating fatal risks”. Prosecutors say that the Fundão tailings dam, one of several huge earthworks built to store iron ore mining waste, had always been problematic. “The dam had been giving problems year after year,” claimed Sampaio, the prosecutor. Almost as soon as it started operating in 2008, the dam presented problems with its drainage system and signs of erosion, according to photographs and inspection reports included in court documents. Samarco lowered the reservoir, changed the drainage system and embarked on a series of remedial works. After the disaster, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton commissioned an investigation by the international law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton (CGSH). Published in August 2016, it found that construction flaws had damaged the dam’s original drainage system and described attempts to correct the problems. The report also pointed to three small seismic shocks in the area about 90 minutes before the dam failed. “This additional movement is likely to have accelerated the failure process that was already well advanced,” it said. The CGSH report did not apportion any blame and Samarco said it would not comment on it. Many of the issues it described are also included in the prosecutors’ complaint. Seepage, saturation and cracking were seen at the dam in 2013, and again in August 2014, the report said. Samarco reinforced the dam with a berm. A month later, Joaquim Pimenta de Ávila, a consultant who had previously carried out work for Samarco, reported that “static liquefaction could be present”, documents show. He inspected the area in December 2014 and told prosecutors he had informed Samarco the situation “was not under control”. Samarco continued raising the height of the dam. According to the CGSH report, this was done in part to enable the company to correct drainage problems. In separate responses to the Guardian, all three companies denied the prosecutors’ charges. Samarco did not respond to questions on the dam’s problems, its failure and the risk assessment. In a statement, it said prosecutors had “disregarded the defences and testimonies presented during investigations”, which it said “prove that Samarco did not have any previous knowledge of the risk to its structures”. BHP Billiton, which owns half of Samarco, said in an email: “We have no reason to believe BHP people knew the dam was at risk of failing. BHP and its representatives will defend these charges.” Vale, which owns the other half of the joint venture, said in an email that it “repudiates vehemently the complaint presented by prosecutors because innumerable pieces of evidence and testimony presented in the case files that proved that Vale was never responsible for the operational management of the Fundão dam were disrespected”. Vale said: “Board members were always expressly assured of the regularity of the structures.” According to minutes included in court documents, Samarco’s board of directors, which included representatives of Vale and BHP Billiton, was briefed several times between 2009 and 2014 on the dam’s construction problems and efforts to fix it. Minutes for all of these meetings – included in court documents – state that representatives from all three companies attended. At the time of the disaster, the Fundão dam was fitted with devices used to measure liquid pressure and water level, but according to the prosecutors’ case, several were either not working, lacked batteries or had been moved to another dam. Samarco declined to comment on this. There was no warning siren. When the dam broke, residents were warned by telephone calls or – in Quintão’s case – by a neighbour who roared up on a motorbike shouting: “The dam has burst!” Samarco said that at the time of the disaster, sirens were not legally required. The court case, which is being heard in the town of Ponte Nova, is in its preliminary stage and the judge is yet to decide whether it will be heard by a jury. It was suspended in July after the former Samarco CEO Ricardo Vescovi and another defendant complained that wiretaps were recorded outside of the investigation period, and that the inclusion as evidence of corporate emails and chats invaded their privacy. The case resumed in November, after the judge decided that corporate emails and chats could not be included and ruled to separate out the cases involving foreign defendants. Samarco and its owners are keen to return to production. In December, Samarco was given preliminary licences by the Minas Gerais state government’s environment agency for a new reject storage system at the plant. President Michel Temer’s business-friendly government wants to increase mining, even in sensitive areas like the Amazon, and make environmental licensing more flexible.
A tanker laden with fuel has been reported to have caught fire on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, on the bridge near the Otedola Housing Estate. Naija News learnt that the accident was caused by a commercial bus that lost control and hit the tanker, sparking a fire that led to the explosion. Emergency workers from Lagos state emergency Management Authority and Lagos fire service are reportedly at the scene. A police source said 10 bodies have been recovered. As of the time of filing this report, over thirty vehicles had been completely burnt with several people dead. Both pedestrians and motorists were seen scampering from safety See photos below courtesy, Rapid Response Squad: See video from the explosion below: is an Associate at Naija News. He is a news media enthusiast, he holds a degree in psychology and loves exploring and sharing about the enormous power that lies in the human mind. Email: enioluwa@naijanews.com, Instagram: adeniyidman
We have now seen the first casualty of a faltering administration. A bridge built in 1980 has collapsed not due to rain and floods, but due to illegal sand mining. The life of the bridge as prescribed by engineers back in 1980 was 100 years. But thanks to the sand mafia, its life has been cut by 62 years, says National Environment Care Foundation (NECF) activist Shashidhar Shetty. The bridge connecting Mangaluru and Buntwal taluks at a place called Mullerpatna-Kuppepadavu collapsed on 25 June. The NECF had warned the district administration of this eventuality a year ago after sand lifters were using heavy earthmoving machinery to remove sand from the Gurupur and Nethravati Rivers and their confluence – despite a ban on using heavy machinery. However, removing sand by way of traditional sand boats was allowed as they do not harm the underwater dune system nor any of the structures built across the rivers, mainly the bridges. But mechanised sand mining goes deeper and scoops up sand in a brutal way, say officials of the department of mines and geology. According to the local manual, sand workers and the mechanised sand mafia had picked up fights with officials frequently, and have chased them away with the help of goons. It was also in the same area that goons had attacked officials of the minerals department in 2013. Gopal Naika, a manual sand miner, told this correspondent that one of the barges that carries heavy earthmoving equipment had collided with one of the pillars of the bridge in the first week of June. The sand mafia of the district has been backed by political heavyweights in the state government such as former member of legislative assembly (MLA) B Ramanatha Rai and his man Friday, Prakash Shetty, a Zilla Panchayat member, both of whom have been accused of protecting the mafia. Abdul Majid, a sand mining labourer in Gurupur, says the mechanised sand miners are politically well connected, owing to which they were able to transport sand to Mysuru, Bengaluru, and to southern districts of Kerala at high costs. “Our sand used to cost not more than Rs 3,000 per truck load in and around Mangaluru, but the same sand used to be sold in Kerala at Rs 72,000 per truck load and over Rs. 35,000 in Mysuru and Bengaluru. This business is one of the greatest cash cows of the previous government,” Majid says. Speaking to Swarajya, MLA of Buntwal, Rajesh Naik, said, “They have been so ruthless in mining sand from the bridge area using mechanised equipment, that I had complained a year back to the department and to the district administration, but nobody took any notice. Last summer, I went to the area and took a closer look and was shocked to see that they had dug below the foundation level and there were indications that the bridge was already destabilised. But the people in power did not bother about the complaints that I and several others had lodged.” Deputy Commissioner of the district, Sasikanth Senthil, and Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat, M R Ravi, inspected the fallen bridge but were not able to account for the destabilisation of its pillars. However, they only said that the causes for the collapse would have to be investigated by experts. After the inter-district transportation of sand was banned, smugglers have been using the cover of the night to transport sand from the coastal areas to Bengaluru and Mysuru. A sand miner, who is now without any blocks, told Swarajya that the department has delayed licensing of sand mining for more than two months just to facilitate the illegal sand trade from Dakshina Kannada to Mysuru and Bengaluru, where powerful political lobbies work hand-in-glove with the construction and real estate lobbies. The interstate and inter-district sand smuggling is channelised through railway wagons and concrete ready mix trucks. On two occasions, police have stopped Mangaluru-Bengaluru goods trains at Buntwal and confiscated five wagons filled with sand in 2015 and 2016. Sand smugglers also hoodwink officials at check posts in Kannur and Gundia on National Highway 75 and at Talapady on National Highway 66 by forging documents of the mines and geology department, forcing then deputy commissioner, A B Ibrahim, to install closed circuit television surveillance of all three check posts. Officials from the department of environment and ecology as well as fisheries were opposed to sand mining activities during the monsoons as it disturbed breeding activities of different varieties of fish. The sand miners, however, claimed that there were no fishing activities being pursued in the rivers of Dakshina Kannada. According to statistics from the mining and geology department, there are 38 blocks of sand and 19 sand bars where mining was done in the district. The total area coming under sand mining was 1,100 acres, for which 250 licences were given out for extraction. According to statistics, 6,000 tonnes of sand was available per acre and the total sand available for extraction was 210,000 tonnes per annum, of which 120,000 loads were being extracted per annum. The district administration will hold a public hearing on 20 July to determine the need for extracting sand in the monsoon period. Former head of the department of applied mechanics at the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, Dr S G Mayya, who has studied the availability of sand in the area, had indicated that a committee had recommended reduction of mining by 30 per cent owing to the deficient monsoons, particularly in the Gurupur River. Dear Reader, Swarajya is gearing up for general election 2019, just like you are. In the run-up to the elections, we intend to bring you stories from places the old media will certainly stay away from. For the 50 Ground Reports Project, we will send our reporters to far corners of the country to bring you the truth and nothing but. But for that, your support is absolutely essential. With your contribution, we can pursue reporting across the country unabashedly.
(New York, December 18, 2017) – Analysis of satellite imagery reveals new destruction of Rohingya villages during October and November 2017 in northern Rakhine State in Burma, Human Rights Watch said today. Human Rights Watch identified 40 villages with building destruction occurring in October and November, increasing the total to 354 villages that have been partially or completely destroyed since August 25, 2017. During this period, thousands more Rohingya refugees fled Burma and arrived in Bangladesh. Satellite imagery confirms that dozens of buildings were burned the same week Burma and Bangladesh signed a Memorandum of Understanding on November 23 to begin returning refugees in Bangladesh within two months. On November 25, satellite data detected an active fire and building destruction in Myo Mi Chang village in Rakhine State’s Maungdaw Township. Four villages suffered building destruction between November 25 and December 2. “The Burmese army’s destruction of Rohingya villages within days of signing a refugee repatriation agreement with Bangladesh shows that commitments to safe returns were just a public relations stunt,” said Brad Adams, Asia director at Human Rights Watch. “The satellite imagery shows what the Burmese army denies: that Rohingya villages continue to be destroyed. Burmese government pledges to ensure the safety of returning Rohingya cannot be taken seriously.” Human Rights Watch has used satellite imagery to assess and monitor over 1,000 villages and towns in the townships of Maungdaw, Buthidaung, and Rathiduang, where the Burmese military and vigilantes have engaged in attacks on Rohingya. Human Rights Watch found that the damage patterns in the 354 affected villages are consistent with burning occurring in the weeks after the military operations began in late August. Of the 354 affected villages, at least 118 were either partially or completely destroyed after September 5 -- the date the Burmese State Counsellor’s office announced as the end of clearance operations. Of the 40 new villages with building destruction identified by Human Rights Watch, 24 were destroyed in October, 11 in November, and 5 over both months. The latest documented arson attacks occurred between November 25 and December 2 in four villages. Satellite data from environmental sensors detected an active fire at 12:30 p.m. in the Rohingya village of Myo Mi Chang in Maungdaw Township on November 25. Building destruction was concentrated in the center of the village, which was undamaged until this attack. Other villages subjected to arson attacks during this period include Nga/Myin Baw, Goke Pi, and an unknown village in the village tract of Zee Pin Chaung. On November 23, Bangladesh and Burma signed an Arrangement on Return of Displaced Persons from Rakhine State on behalf of “residents of Rakhine State” who crossed from Burma into Bangladesh after October 9, 2016 and August 25, 2017. In letters to both governments, Human Rights Watch said the agreement should be shelved, noting the lack of involvement by the United Nations and the unrealistic timetable for safe and voluntary returns starting in January 2018. Since late August, the Burmese military has committed widespread killings, rapes, arbitrary arrests, and mass arson in hundreds of predominantly Rohingya villages in northern Rakhine State, forcing more than 655,000 Rohingya to flee to neighboring Bangladesh. Human Rights Watch has found that this campaign of ethnic cleansing amounts to crimes against humanity. Attacks by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) armed group on 30 security force outposts and an army base that killed 11 Burmese security personnel set off the Burmese military “clearance operations” against the Rohingya. In November, a Burmese army “investigation team” report concluded that there were “no deaths of innocent people” during the military operation in Rakhine State, and that at least 376 “terrorists” were killed during fighting, contrary to information reported by the UN, media outlets, and human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch. The humanitarian group Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) on December 14 concluded that at least 6,700 Rohingya were killed in the violence, over 700 of whom were children, based on survey data of refugees in Bangladesh. “The UN Security Council and concerned governments shouldn’t continue to stand by as evidence of continuing attacks on the Rohingya community comes to light,” Adams said. “Targeted sanctions need to be imposed now against those responsible for ordering and carrying out crimes against humanity.”
CAIRO — Just north of the Egyptian capital, a short ferryboat ride will take you to the southern tip of the Nile island of Warraq. It has patches of agricultural land and scattered houses and deeper in, the island resembles a typical Cairo neighborhood with tightly-stacked buildings and narrow streets packed with motorcycles and tuk-tuks. Life on Warraq Island — one of dozens of inhabited islands that dot the Nile's span across Egypt — was recently disturbed when President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi identified it as his next target in an ongoing large-scale campaign to retrieve illegally occupied state land. Clashes erupted between police and local when security forces attempted to demolish buildings on the island. Police officers fired tear gas to disperse a crowd that had gathered to contest the eviction. In the ensuing standoff, one resident was killed and 19 injured, according to the Health Ministry — while the Ministry of Interior says that 31 officers were wounded. The clashes have temporarily halted the demolition attempts. In the conference on land reclamation held last June, the government announced that it had already retrieved 118 million square meters of state land in a few weeks. Now, President Sisi says, it's time for the state to turn its attention to Nile islands — and Warraq in particular. "There's an island in the middle of the Nile that stretches over 1,250 feddans (525 hectares). People have been building on land that they seized, and now there are 50,000 houses there. Where does their sewage go? It goes into the Nile water that we drink. We can't allow that and hurt ourselves," Sisi said. In his speech, Sisi was adamant that island residents would not be granted any concessions. "Any buildings on the banks of water channels, drains or the Nile should be removed. Yes, there are residents. We shall find a solution for them, but they have to be removed," he said. The legality of residents on the island is a contested issue: Warraq is home to three public schools, a police unit, a water station, a post office and is equipped with official electricity meters — a common array of basic services in informal areas that serve as tacit acknowledgement from the state of their existence. "If it's illegal, why did you introduce government facilities?" asks Abdel Hamid Abdallah, who points out the facilities on a tour of the island on which he has lived his entire life. Most island landowners acquired their property by the acknowledged practice of "hands putting" (wad' yad), whereby they are given ownership of a piece of land after residing on it undisputedly for 15 years. Many have succeeded to have their land ownership officially registered through this mechanism. Daily life on Warrq Island Photo: Fayed El-Geziry/ZUMA In his speech, Sisi referred to a 1988 decree, which regulates construction on the Nile and prohibits building on the river banks within approximately 30 meters of the water. Another 1998 prime minister decree declared 144 Nile islands as natural protectorates, thus limiting the number of inhabitants that can take up residence on them. However, neither decree was put into practice, and the state hasn't barred building on these islands for decades. Moreover, according to independent statistics, the government is the number one guilty party when it comes to building on the shore of the Nile. "Why are they blaming us? They should be blaming themselves. We have electricity, water stations, a school that I went to," says 68-year-old Hajj Hassan, a calligrapher on the island. Warraq village is a large hometown, not a place where a few old men live." People living on Warraq largely make a living through agriculture or as handymen and small traders, surviving on minimal, and poor quality, services. They don't want more or less. "We are happy just the way we are. We just want them to leave us alone," says 42-year-old Mona Mahmoud, a Warraq resident walking home from the vegetable market. "I have borrowed so much money in order to build houses for my kids to live near me, and now they want to take it all away and kick us out." As we are walking, we meet a man and children who stop and greet us. "See? I know everyone here," Mahmoud says. "If you point at any house, I can tell you who lives there. We have the traditions of a village. Here the men know the women and would not harass them. During the revolution and all the chaos, it was safe here. We didn't see thugs or protests or anything. How can we move elsewhere, even if they give us palaces?" Beyond the question of legality of buildings near the Nile, media reports have long alluded to a strong commercial interest in the Nile islands, which would see them developed into high-end investment projects. A farmer working in agriculture on the island of Warraq — Photo: Fayed El-Geziry/ZUMA In June, Medhat Kamal al-Din, the head of the Egyptian Surveying Authority, told the privately owned Al-Masry Al-Youm newspaper that authorities had been tasked with mapping the area in preparation for the implementation of "high priority" projects. In the same story, Al-Masry Al-Youm cites anonymous sources as saying that Sisi has ordered the Nile islands to be transformed into "money and business centers." Hany Younes, the spokesperson for the Planning Ministry, says that the ministry has no information on plans for the islands as yet. The recent clashes are only the latest episode in a long battle between the state and the Nile islands. Since 2005, there have been several standoffs between the government and residents of different islands, notably on Dahab, Qursaya and Warraq. In 2008, the government proposed the "Cairo 2050" urban development strategy, which involved turning Dahab Island into an investment area. All the plans were aborted, however, following protests by island residents. In 2010, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled in favor of the residents of Qursaya Island, acknowledging their right to remain on the island. However, the battle was renewed in 2012, when military forces attempted to forcefully evict the island's residents. They ultimately failed to do so after one resident was killed in the clashes. "When they build their hotels on the island, won't they introduce a sewage system? Why don't they do it for the residents and owners of the land instead? Are these foreigners that they will give the land to better than us?" asks Abdallah, sitting in front of his house, across from the small field he owns and from which he makes his living. Abdallah knows one thing for sure, "There are people here living with their children and their cattle and everything they own. We're not a bunch of chickens that they can shoo away."
Everyone has seen wildflowers. But have you ever seen them bloom from space? California is projecting its beauty to the satellites of Planet, a company founded in 2010 by a team of ex-NASA scientists whose mission is to “image the entire Earth every day,” according to its website. Their striking imagery shows a stark contrast of the landscape from December to the end of March with the “super bloom” in effect. Can you spot the poppies? While Southern California is experiencing what is being called the biggest wildflower bloom in years, naturalists predicted Northern California’s wildflowers would be peaking soon. If the view from space isn’t good enough for you, here are several places in the Sacramento region where you can take some pictures of your own: 1. In eastern Sacramento County, the hills along Jackson Highway. 2. Jepson Prairie, off Highway 113 near Dixon. The Solano Land Trust hosts tours here every Saturday and Sunday at 10 a.m. through May 14. 3. North Table Mountain Ecological Reserve near Oroville, though it can get crowded. 4. Railtown 1897 State Historic Park (10501 Reservoir Road, Jamestown), in the foothills east of Stockton, has a “Wildflower Train” departing at 3 p.m. on April 15 with park naturalists and rangers pointing out the different flowers in bloom. Tickets cost $20 for adults and $14 for children ages 6 to 17 and can be purchased at www.railtown1897.org. 5. South Yuba River State Park (17660 Pleasant Valley Road, Penn Valley) offers wildflower walks at 11 a.m. every Saturday and Sunday through May 14.
Cameroon is well on track with the development of 15MW hydroelectrical power dam constructed in the Dja and Lobo Division located in the South Region, reports said on Wednesday. The hydropower project being constructed by the Cameroon-based Mekin Hydroelectric Development Corporation, has a project’s power plant, earth dam, the step-up power plant in the town of Mekin and the step-down power plant in Ndjom Yekomo. According to media reports, the dam currently contains enough water to supply electricity, although the technical director of the project says the peak period for maximum production of electricity will only be in October 2018. Going by Giscard Kuete, head of the unit, the computer monitors, examine, detect and recommend repairs of possible damages that may occur on the production cite as well as on electricity transportation lines and power stations. Kuete explained that the power plant’s turbines supply 63 kilovolts of power to the plant in Mekin, which steps it up to 110 kilovolts, then transports it via high tension cables to the step-down substation in Ndjom Yekomo. Power distribution On the other hand, engineers in Ndjom Yekomo ensure the constant reduction of the 110 kilovoltage they receive into 30 kilovolts ready to be sent into ENEO cables for onward distribution to users. They however have noted that citizens cannot immediately begin to enjoy the fruits of the project due to technical difficulties on the part of ENEO. Tests have been carried out which proved that the distribution company’s equipment needed repairs and upgrade to distribute the power to targetted Sub Divisions like Meyomessi, Bengbis, Djoum, Mintom, Oveng and surrounding villages of Endom, Somalomo, Mvangan, Nkolmetet among others. Technical Director of the construction corporation, Charles Nkwawir Shiynteng said Mekin Hydroelectric Development Corporation has reached an understanding with ENEO, which will facilitate provisional reception of the project on April 1, after a final test scheduled to take place in March.
During an elegant dinner in the wilds of Patagonia, Kris Tompkins suddenly remembered the fresh guanaco carcass down the road. She rose from the table and drove us to the nearby grasslands of Patagonia national park, gushing about the possibility of staying up all night with a torch in hope of spying a mountain lion come to feast on the dead llama-like creature. Tompkins searched the golden hillsides for the 100kg carcass she had spotted hours earlier. Had lions dragged it into the underbrush? Were the Andean condors circling above preparing to finish off the remains? As she drove, Tompkins narrated her quarter century-long effort to reintroduce threatened and locally extinct species to the wilds of South America – ranging from giant anteaters and jaguars in northern Argentina to Darwin’s rhea, a species of ostrich native to southern Patagonia. When Conservación Patagónica – the NGO she helped found – bought the land that became this park, the guanaco population was struggling to compete for food and space with an estimated 25,000 sheep. But since the sheep were sold and the fences removed, native guanaco herds have flourished from an unsustainable population of several hundred to an estimated 3,000. After purchasing a 222,000-acre property in 2004, Tompkins and her husband Doug, who died in a kayak accident in 2015, dedicated the following years to their conservation effort. Using hundreds of volunteers, Conservación Patagónica has converted these overgrazed sheep ranchlands into a world-renowned example of ecological restoration by reintroducing and breeding native species as part of a comprehensive rewilding programme. First coined in the 1990s by environmental activist Dave Foreman, rewilding – large-scale wilderness recovery that allows natural processes and native wildlife to flourish – has migrated from fringe fantasy to the mainstream of conservation biology. Scientists increasingly believe the complex web of life thrives in the absence of human intervention and is often heavily influenced by mountain lions, wolves and other “apex predators”. “I am a big non-human advocate. I get along better with the non-human world probably than the human world,” said Tompkins. “I would like to change the way national parks look at rewilding everywhere in the world where there are extirpated species, [and to] make it one of the goals of national parks everywhere. As they say, landscape without wildlife is just scenery.” Tompkins, a former CEO of clothing company Patagonia, and her late husband, who made his fortune from founding clothing companies The North Face and Esprit, have contributed $170m to the rewilding, along with an estimated $45m from philanthropists around the globe. By purchasing vast tracts of wildlands in both Chile and Argentina, the Tompkinses initiated conservation projects that have added more than 11m acres to the national parks systems of those countries. Their strategy of purchasing land, removing livestock and fencing, and reintroducing extinct species or reinforcing populations of threatened ones has become a laboratory – if not a model – for rewilding worldwide. “Compared to South America, with a lot of wildlands left, in Europe it is much more about restoring natural processes in large landscapes to let wilder nature develop,” said Frans Schepers, managing director of Rewilding Europe. “In Europe, the rewilding movement has large areas in which there has been a successful comeback of wolves to Germany, elk to Denmark, Iberian lynx to Spain and bison to central and eastern Europe.” Scotland’s highlands, in particular, are being restored by landowners seeking not only to help re-establish missing native species but to replant the majestic Caledonian forest, lost centuries ago to logging and sheep that have grazed the land to a nearly unrecognisable shell of its former lush existence. In 1989, the conservationist Alan Watson Featherstone founded Trees for Life, a charity that has since planted more than a million trees in Scotland. Scottish rewilding efforts also include the restoration of peat bogs and efforts to cull the red deer population, which has swelled beyond what biologists consider a healthy population – due largely to the absence of predators including wolves which once ranged widely across Scotland. Across Europe a movement is taking shape, with Rewilding Europe coordinating projects in 10 countries. “We not only need to protect nature, but also to restore it and provide space for nature to develop. Many ecosystems – the basis of our natural wealth – are broken,” said Schepers. “Even in Europe we can allow nature to take more of its own course, instead of people managing and controlling it.” Cristian Saucedo, a veterinarian and head of the wildlife conservation programme at Patagonia national park, described rewilding as “a moral issue to avoid extinction. We are not just losing species, we are reducing our own chances for survival in the long term.” Pointing to the resurgence of mountain lions in the park, Saucedo said: “We are not just preserving landscape and wildlife, but also clean water, forests, and functional ecosystems. If we don’t have top predators, the population of guanacos explodes, and this affects the grass. We are all related. The problem with humans is that we are now so far removed from nature.”
The head of Cape Town’s disaster operations centre is drawing up a plan he hopes he never has to implement as this South African city on the frontline of climate change prepares to be the first in the world to turn off the water taps. “We’ve identified four risks: water shortages, sanitation failures, disease outbreaks and anarchy due to competition for scarce resources,” says Greg Pillay. “We had to go back to the drawing board. We were prepared for disruption of supply, but not a no-water scenario. In my 40 years in emergency services, this is the biggest crisis.” The plan – being drawn up with the emergency services, the military, epidemiologists and other health experts – is geared towards Day Zero, the apocalyptically named point when water in the six-dam reservoir system falls to 13.5% of capacity. At this critical level – currently forecast for 16 April – piped supply will be deemed to have failed and the city will dispatch teams of engineers to close the valves to about a million homes – 75% of the city. “It’s going to be terrifying for many people when they turn on the tap and nothing comes out,” says Christine Colvin, freshwater manager for WWF and a member of the mayor’s advisory board. In place of piped water, the city will establish 200 water collection points, scattered around the city to ensure the legally guaranteed minimum of 25 litres per person per day within 200 metres of every citizen’s home. This will be a major burden on municipal coffers. The estimated cost of installing and running the new system for three months is 200m rand (£12m). Instead of selling water, it will be given away for free, which will mean R1.4bn in lost revenue. “The total city budget is R40bn, so this won’t destroy us, but it will cause severe discomfort,” says the deputy mayor, Ian Neilson, who adds that he has not had a bath at home for a year. “A bigger concern is to ensure the economy doesn’t collapse. We need to keep business and jobs going … Clearly, there could be a severe impact. It depends on how long it continues.” Neilson stresses that Day Zero can be avoided. A lowering of pipe pressure and a public information campaign to conserve water have cut the city’s daily water consumption from 1,200 million litres to 540 million litres. If this can be pushed down another 25%, the taps should stay open to the start of the rainy season in May. But this is no guarantee. Three consecutive years of drought have made a mockery of normal seasonal patterns. “We’re in a critical transition period where the past is no longer an accurate guide to the future,” says Colvin. She illustrates her point with two maps. One – based on historical data – shows the water risk of Cape Town is green, meaning it is among the lowest in South Africa. The other – based on future climate projections – is almost the complete opposite, with the city located in a middle of an alarming red heat zone. “What we didn’t know was when that future would arrive,” says Colvin. “Businesses and investors have heard the long-term projections but they haven’t heard the starting gun go off. If this drought can pull the trigger then that could be a good thing. If this is seen as a pressure test for the new normal, it will help us to adapt.” The government has struggled to keep pace. Plans to make the city more resilient to climate change by diversifying the water supply with boreholes and desalination plants were not due to kick in until after 2020. But the climate has moved faster, bringing a drought so severe it would usually be expected only once every 384 years. What was the biggest reservoir in the system – Theewaterskloof Dam – has mostly evaporated or been sucked dry. One side of the lake is now a desert. Devoid of life, this is a landscape of sand dunes, cracked earth and dead trees. It takes more than 30 minutes walk under a burning sun to reach the last pool of water, which is barely wide enough to skim a stone across. In what looks like a dark failure of evolution, it is ringed by the carcasses of stranded fish. On the other side, by the dam wall, the water is nearly 10 metres deep, but the shoreline is receding at the rate of the 1.2m a week, leaving the bed exposed to the sun. The afternoon winds once attracted sail boats; now they whip up white dust storms that envelop much of the valley. “The change is visible by the week,” said Paul Furstenburg, restaurant manager at Theewater sports club. “When I arrived here four years ago, it was like a sea,” he says, pointing to photographs on the walls of high waves crashing up to the car park during a storm and dozens of boats sailing in regattas. Now, the shoreline is more than 100m back and one of the three small vessels left in the water is stranded on a sandbank. The club – which would normally be thronged with sailors, water-skiers, swimmers, campers and fishermen – is almost empty. The revenue has dried up too, leaving the 20 staff worried about their futures. “This has gone from a holiday resort to nothing,” says Errol Nichols, the safety officer. “It has become a desolate place.” In Cape Town itself, the population is jittery. “We’re scared,” says Amirah Armien as she queues to fill a couple of bottles at the spring beside Newlands Brewery. “Water is life. What are we going to do without water?” After a run on bottled water last month, supermarkets introduced limits for each customer. Hardware shops have sold out of water tanks and pool covers. Borehole drillers are now so overwhelmed with requests that there is a year-long wait. Even dehumidifiers – which are being marketed as “water from air” devices – are out of stock. “People are freaking out,” said David Gwynne-Evans, a botanist. “You go to the shops and see people buying 20 bottles of water. It’s a ridiculous increase of disposable plastic.” He believes Cape Town’s vineyards bear a large share of blame because they are water-intensive yet they have continued to expand during the drought. “Wine is a luxury. We shouldn’t be using water for that, yet even now new vineyards are opening.” The crisis has exacerbated prejudice and division. One homophobic pastor blames the drought on gays and lesbians. There has also been sharp criticism of the government, and feuds between the national and provincial authorities over the handling of the crisis. Yet – among the broader populace – efforts to avert Day Zero have been successfully ramped up. Many hotels have removed the plugs from rooms so guests must have a shower rather than a bath. Blue droplet-shaped signs above office toilet sinks remind users “Conserve H2O. Use sparingly.” There are more signs in the cubicles, which are divided into “No 1” and “No 2” toilets to ensure maximum efficiency. Some shopping malls have turned off the taps and installed hand-sanitiser dispensers. At an individual level, the learning curve has been steep. Civic-minded Capetonians have become accustomed to showering – or just ladling hot water – in a baby bath that collects the run-off so that it can be used in first the washing machine and then the toilet. A major topic of conversation for Capetonians is how many litres they use and how long they can go without washing their hair or flushing. “I’ve never talked about toilets so much,” says Fiona Kinsey, a young office worker. “Last year, we were discussing whether it was OK to wee in a public toilet and not flush. Now we are way beyond that.” Shame is used to maintain discipline. An online water consumption map allows neighbours to check on each other’s usage. Some sports clubs have installed buzzers on their showers that embarrass people who linger under the water for more than two minutes. There is a positive aspect to this sudden shock. Many people are happy to see a greater awareness of conservation and consumption inequality. Social activists say the rich are experiencing what life has always been like in poor townships, where many residents are used to lining up at standpipes. “Using washing water to flush the toilet is what people in townships do all the time,” says Makoma Lekalakala, director of Earthlife Africa. “So is washing with buckets and scuttles. I had my first shower when I was in my 20s.” Dee Watson, a teacher, describes the situation as a “euphoric stage” in which most people are looking out for others in a positive way. “What’s amazing is to mix and talk in the queue with every strata of society. We all need water so it brings people together,” says Watson. “For now at least, most people are laughing and joking. But it’s scary that some people are being greedy and panic-buying.” There have been acts of benevolence. At the start of the drought, Newlands spring – where water flows freely from underground – was a site of mud, crowds and chaos as people jostled to get at the taps and informal labourers competed to carry water for tips. “People were getting hurt,” remembers Riyaz Rawoot, a local resident who says he spent R25,000 from his own pocket to organise the spring with the construction of multiple access points and provision of uniforms for the water carriers. “I’m not making any money. I just want to be of service. Until now it has been fun, but it is becoming more stressful as more people come,” he says. “I’m worried about Day Zero. People are scared and they don’t trust the government, so they might panic and try to get water any way they can.” Neighbours are already unhappy that their previously quiet street is now a hive of activity, with people carrying water containers in squeaky shopping trolleys back and forth from the spring to cars parked along the main road. “It’s a nightmare,” says one of the residents of the Cresswell House senior citizens’ community. “They come all through the night. It’s so noisy we can’t sleep.” It is also far from clear that drought is a social leveller. Wealthy homeowners have drilled boreholes and invested in water tanks so they have an independent supply. Joggers who go out at 5am say they can hear the “phut phut” of sprinklers being used to water lawns before most people are awake. Some residents have called environmental groups to complain their neighbours are filling swimming pools. At the other end of the income spectrum, there are worries. The government has promised that standpipes will continue to flow in informal settlements after Day Zero, but there is scepticism in the Kanini neighbourhood of the Langa township. The one pipe that serves 20 families tailed off here last Thursday without explanation. Some locals feel they are being punished because of a public outcry about the waste at a street car-washing centre at the neighbouring settlement of Joe Slovo. “I’m worried … everyone is worried. It will be a crisis for us,” says Nowest Nmoni, who makes a living by brewing Umqombothi beer in oil drums. “If we lose water, we lose our income.” Maintaining social programmes will also be a challenge. City officials say hospitals and prisons will run as normal because they have access to aquifers, but questions remain about 819 schools, half of which do not have boreholes. There would be sanitation risks if their toilets were unable to flush, but the authorities insist they will remain open. “The objective is no school closures. We don’t want kids on the street compounding issues,” says deputy mayor Neilson. When the Brazilian city of São Paulo faced drought catastrophe in 2015 the army checked the security of reservoirs and water supplies fearing violent unrest, but officials in Cape Town play down similar fears. Though thousands of South African Defence Force and police personnel will be deployed after Day Zero to guard water distribution centres, reservoirs and other strategic areas, they say, the number of officers at each site will be determined by risk assessments of each location’s past history of protest or gang activity. “This isn’t going to be martial law. It will be low profile,” says JP Smith, an alderman responsible for safety and security. “There might be some trouble about people cutting queues, but I don’t foresee a big increase in crime. The bigger problem will be congestion.” For him, it is a moot point. He believes Day Zero will be avoided. The premier of Western Cape, Helen Zille, however, believes there is a 60% chance that it will occur. While the debate rages about what will happen, who is to blame and whether the city will be drawn together or pulled apart, Pillay and his colleagues at the disaster risk management office are obliged to prepare for the worst – something other cities may soon be obliged to do. “We don’t want to create panic. We can avert Day Zero,” he says. “We had hoped that rainfall would replenish the dams, but it hasn’t happened. What this signalled to me what that climate change is reality. If you doubted it before, you can’t now.” Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to join the discussion, and explore our archive here
SICHUAN, China - An explosion at a chemical plant in Sichuan province's Yibin city this week left 19 people dead and 12 others seriously injured. A statement on the website of the local work safety administration stated that the blast occurred at an industrial park in Yibin city. Authorities in Jiang'an county reportedly confirmed the blast in a brief statement and said that the explosion took place at a chemical plant run by Yibin Hengda Technology. So far, authorities have not revealed what caused the explosion but said that an investigation had been launched. Local reports also pointed out that Yibin Hengda produces chemicals for the food and pharmaceutical industries. Further explaining the magnitude of the explosion, reports noted that the three-storey building of the factory burnt down to its steel frames and even nearby buildings suffered damage, with their windows being shattered. On Friday, authorities said that those injured in the explosion were in a stable condition and the ferocious blaze had been put out. China, which is the worlds largest producer of chemicals, has witnessed several high-profile disasters at chemical plants over the last few years. Previously, in 2015, 173 people died in an explosion at a chemical warehouse in Tianjin port city.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - China appears to have largely completed major construction of military infrastructure on artificial islands it has built in the South China Sea and can now deploy combat planes and other military hardware there at any time, a U.S. think tank said on Monday. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI), part of Washington’s Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the work on Fiery Cross, Subi and Mischief Reefs in the Spratly Islands included naval, air, radar and defensive facilities. The think tank cited satellite images taken this month, which its director, Greg Poling, said showed new radar antennae on Fiery Cross and Subi. “So look for deployments in the near future,” he said. China has denied U.S. charges that it is militarizing the South China Sea, although last week Premier Li Keqiang said defense equipment had been placed on islands in the disputed waterway to maintain “freedom of navigation.” China’s Defense Ministry did not respond to a request for comment. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Tuesday she was unaware of the details of the think tank’s report, but added the Spratly Islands were China’s inherent territory. “As for China deploying or not deploying necessary territorial defensive facilities on its own territory, this is a matter that is within the scope of Chinese sovereignty,” she told a daily news briefing. A Pentagon spokesman, Commander Gary Ross, declined to comment on the specifics of the AMTI report, saying it was not the Defense Department’s practice to comment on intelligence. But he said that “China’s continued construction in the South China Sea is part of a growing body of evidence that they continue to take unilateral actions which are increasing tensions in the region and are counterproductive to the peaceful resolution of disputes.” AMTI said China’s three air bases in the Spratlys and another on Woody Island in the Paracel chain further north would allow its military aircraft to operate over nearly the entire South China Sea, a key global trade route that Beijing claims most of. Several neighboring states have competing claims in the sea, which is widely seen as a potential regional flashpoint. The think tank said advanced surveillance and early-warning radar facilities at Fiery Cross, Subi and Cuarteron Reefs, as well as Woody Island, and smaller facilities elsewhere gave it similar radar coverage. It said China had installed HQ-9 surface-to-air missiles at Woody Island more than a year ago and had deployed anti-ship cruise missiles there on at least one occasion. It had also constructed hardened shelters with retractable roofs for mobile missile launchers at Fiery Cross, Subi and Mischief and enough hangars at Fiery Cross for 24 combat aircraft and three larger planes, including bombers. U.S. officials told Reuters last month that China had finished building almost two dozen structures on Subi, Mischief and Fiery Cross that appeared designed to house long-range surface-to-air missiles. In his Senate confirmation hearing in January, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson angered China by saying it should be denied access to islands it had built up in the South China Sea. Tillerson subsequently softened his language, saying that in the event of an unspecified “contingency,” the United States and its allies “must be capable of limiting China’s access to and use of” those islands to pose a threat. In recent years, the United States has conducted a series of what it calls freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea, raising tensions with Beijing.
Nestled beneath the imposing white peaks of two glaciers in Peru’s Cordillera Blanca, the aquamarine Lake Palcacocha is as calm as a millpond. But despite its placid appearance it has become a deadly threat to tens of thousands people living beneath it as a result of global warming. A handful of residents of Huaraz, the city below the lake, can recall its destructive power. In 1941 a chunk of ice broke away from the glacier in an earthquake, tumbling into the lake. The impact caused a flood wave which sent an avalanche of mud and boulders cascading down the mountain, killing about 1,800 people when it reached the city. Today the lake is even more potentially dangerous, swollen with glacial meltwater like an almost-overflowing bathtub. A temperature rise of 0.5-0.8C between the 1970s and the 2000s has seen a third of Peru’s ice caps vanish in the last four decades. The city’s population has grown too. With more than 150,000 inhabitants, today Huaraz is about 15 times larger than it was during the last deadly landslide. Flood wave modelling by the University of Texas shows how a breakaway chunk of glacier could displace up to 15bn litres of meltwater from the 70-metre deep, mile long (1.7km) lake, propelling a wave of up to 30 metres over a ridge of rocks and down the mountain. “There are around 50,000 people living in the danger zone,” says Noah Walker-Crawford, a social anthropologist from Manchester University. “According to the authorities’ estimates, even if you were able to warn the people, there could still be about 20,000 fatalities,” he adds. The people would have 30 minutes to evacuate, says Cesar Florez, a risk management specialist for the region’s government and the man ultimately responsible for the people’s safety. “It’s more than enough time,” Florez says. “It’s the same time allotted to evacuate coastal areas in the case of tsunami,” he tells the Guardian, adding the escape time could be lengthened by a series of energy dissipators and dykes. So far, however, none of that flood mitigation infrastructure is in place. For now, 10 black tubes pump out water to reduce the lake’s level. Perched on a bluff facing the lake, Calef de la Cruz radios in a status report to the regional government every two hours. Living in a hut for up to a fortnight at a time, it is a lonely and sleepless vigil. But until an early warning system is installed, which authorities say will happen later this year, the watchfulness of De la Cruz and his colleagues is all that stands between the lake and the residents below. But for the poor, largely indigenous farmers in the verdant mountains around the ice caps, the problem is not too much water but too little. The Andean country is home to 70% of the world’s tropical glaciers and as they gradually ebb away, a water crisis looms. Climate change has made the weather unpredictable and the unseasonal melting of the glaciers has thrown the farmers’ existence into jeopardy. Alejandro Rosales is a 62-year-old farmer from Yarush, a tiny hamlet above Huaraz. For him, like many residents of the mountains, the snow-capped peaks are apus – beings of mythic or semi-divine importance. He never thought he would see the white peaks he gazed at as a child turn black, he says. “Sometimes there are years when you get a good harvest; there are also years when the harvest fails. That means the children go to school without their daily bread. It’s really hard,” he adds, showing the Guardian blackened potatoes which crumble in his hands. The potatoes, which were stored months earlier to sow later this year, are riddled with moth caterpillars. The warming has meant new pests are creeping to higher altitudes where the colder weather once held them at bay. Saúl Luciano Lliuya, a farmer and mountain guide whose home in Nueva Florida is in Lake Palcacocha’s flood path, has filed a lawsuit against the German electro-domestic firm RWE for its role in causing global warming, as one of the world’s top emitters of carbon dioxide. “The glacier is a source of water for those in the countryside and for us all in the city, so you can imagine what the future will be like if we don’t have it,” he says. “From the risk problem to the water scarcity problem; all of this is what inspired me to file a lawsuit,” he adds. Lliuya’s 2015 demand for damages from RWE has been admitted on appeal by a higher regional court in the German city of Hamm. Lliuya is seeking compensation of about $20,000 (£15,000) from the energy giant to help install the lake’s safety measures, as well as the reimbursement of €6,384 he has spent on flood protection. It is a tiny amount for the company, he admits but adds: “What we are saying is this is happening and it’s putting us at risk. The damage caused is irreversible; for that no amount of money is enough.”
As the world watched the end of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, a different sort of athletic drama unfolded on the planet’s second-highest mountain. For the last eight weeks, a team of Polish alpinists has battled some of the most powerful forces in nature in an attempt to achieve what many in the mountaineering community have long believed impossible: a winter ascent of K2, the crown jewel of the Karakoram Range. But the story took an unexpected turn at the team’s base camp over the weekend, when Denis Urubko, their strongest climber, abruptly announced he wanted to go for the summit two weeks earlier than team leader Krzysztof Wielicki had planned. An angry argument ensued. Urubko packed his gear and set off alone up the icy, windswept mountain. “What Denis has done is very selfish,” said Wielicki, when I reached him by satellite phone as I have done regularly over the last several weeks. “Denis thinks it’s all about just him, but it’s not. He has put all of us in danger. If something goes wrong, of course we must try to rescue him.” By Monday morning, he had abandoned his attempt and was on his way back to base camp. It was later announced on the team's official Facebook page that he was leaving the expedition. It’s difficult to explain why anyone would want to climb in the Karakoram during winter, a time when some of the world’s tallest mountains are transformed into an otherworldly arena. Hurricane-force winds regularly strafe their jagged contours armored in hard gray ice, and temperatures plummet to -80°F, lower than the average temperature on Mars. Rising along the borders of Pakistan, China, and India, these monstrous peaks—which dwarf the Rockies—have little tolerance for humans in any season, but especially in winter. They envelope climbers in blizzards, bury them in avalanches, freeze their blood, and snap their bones. Such brutal conditions have sent most mountaineers home to wait for summer—the traditional Karakoram climbing season. But not Krzysztof Wielicki. It’s a challenge he’s been working toward for decades. Forty years ago, Wielicki was among the wild-eyed pioneers who established winter climbing in the Himalayas. In 1980 as part of an all-Polish team determined to make an indelible mark on alpinism, he and Leszek Cichy made the first successful winter ascent of Everest, the world’s tallest mountain, sending shockwaves through the mountaineering world. That same year, the Poles performed poorly in the Winter Olympics, and Wielicki’s climb helped soothe the disappointment of his country. “I realized then,” he told me several years ago, “my mission in life was to help the Polish become the greatest winter climbers in the world,” He set his sights on the planet’s 13 next tallest mountains, all higher than 8,000 meters (26,246 feet). In 1986, Wielicki and Polish alpinist Jerzy Kukuczka made the first winter ascent of Kangchenjunga, the world’s third-highest mountain. In 1988, this time going solo, Wielicki accomplished the first winter ascent of Lhotse, the fourth-highest. Other Polish teams claimed Cho Oyu, Dhaulagiri I, Manaslu, and Anna Purna, earning Polish mountaineers the nickname the “Ice Warriors.” It took a decade, but a new wave of Polish winter alpinists did develop and began claiming 8,000-meter winter firsts. Adam Bielecki and Janusz Golab made the first winter ascent of Gasherbrum 1 in 2012, and the following year, Artur Malek was a member of the team that made the first winter ascent of Broad Peak. All three of these climbers are now on K2 with Wielicki. The last remaining prize in this rarefied category is K2, a mountain unlike any other. At 28,251 feet, it is roughly 800 feet lower than Everest, but it is much steeper and requires a far greater degree of technical skill to climb under the best conditions. Eighty-four climbers have died attempting to climb K2, and only 306 have reached its summit, giving it a fatality-success ratio of roughly one death for every three summits. By comparison, almost 5,000 people have now summited Everest (more than 8,000 summits if you include climbers who’ve done it more than once), with 288 deaths—one death for every 25 summits. Therefore, K2 is statistically 10 times more dangerous than Everest. And that’s if you try it in summer. In 2002-03, he returned with an international team of Poles, Kazakhs, Uzbeks, and Georgians. The team was able to establish a camp at 7,650 meters, but high winds destroyed it, and one of the climbers developed cerebral edema—swelling of the brain caused by high altitude—and had to be evacuated. Wielicki and his team were undeterred by these previous failures. They began this year’s expedition after Christmas in northeast Pakistan, trekking some 60 miles through mountain valleys choked with several feet of snow. They established their base camp on the Godwin-Austen Glacier, which at 5,000 meters (16,400 feet) is higher than Mount Whitney, the tallest peak in the continental United States. Some two weeks after they established their base camp, the team was called to rescue Tomasz Mackiewicz, a fellow Polish mountaineer, and Elisabeth Revol, his French partner, as they tried to summit their own eight-thousander, Nanga Parbat (26,660 feet). The Poles put their expedition on hold without hesitation to come to the aid of other climbers more than 100 miles away. Ultimately, the wind will determine whether or not a summit is successful. On several days, the team has seen winds reach 50 miles an hour. This creates multiple threats, including dropping the wind chill far below zero—which can quickly cause frostbite—and can blow a climber completely off the mountain, even one who is tied to a rope. In 1995, high winds plucked famous British climber Alison Hargreaves and five of her teammates, all roped together, right off K2, sending them all to their deaths. And that was in August. Winter brings even stronger winds as the jet stream shifts so that it runs almost directly over the mountain. The high winds also can send loose rocks hurtling down the mountain’s flanks. In separate incidents, two of Wielicki’s climbers were hit by falling rock. On February 2nd, Bielecki was struck in the face, suffering a broken nose and a gash requiring six stiches. Then Rafal Fronia was hit in the arm by a falling rock, fracturing the bones in his forearm. He was evacuated and is now back in Poland. “The mountain is dry and the rock fall is bad up to Camp 1,” Wielicki told me, noting that the lack of snow to hold rocks in place made the danger worse. In the background I could hear the wind whipping the walls of his nylon tent. Fist size rocks were randomly whizzing down the wall. “It just became too dangerous to continue,” Wielicki explained. Wielicki’s favored approach to winter expeditions is to use “siege” tactics, assiduously erecting a series of three or four tiny camps at various points on the mountain to give the climbers just enough shelter to warm themselves, rest, and eat before moving up. All the camps are connected by ropes anchored to cracks in the rock and ice. These “fixed lines” allow the climbers and porters to move more easily between them. But high-altitude mountain climbing isn’t just about going up. The climbers must adjust to the whisper thin air (especially Wielicki’s team which is not using bottled oxygen), so they go up the ropes to Camp 1, spend a few nights, then come back down to base camp and recuperate for a few days. On the next foray, they go higher to Camp 2, spend a few nights, then descend back to base camp. This up-and-down process continues over a month, allowing their bodies to adjust. Bielecki refused, telling Urubko that neither he nor the team was ready to go and that they should remain united and stick to the plan. Urubko became enraged, left the team tent, and stomped out into the snow. On Saturday morning after breakfast, he headed up the mountain alone.
Color change in Turkey's salt lake makes stunning view World Islamic World Turkey News Analysis Media Economy Art & Culture Health & Environment Science&Technology History Interviews & In Depth Archive Article & Comment Ramadan Filebox Islamophobia Hajj GİRİŞ YAP ÜYE OL ŞİFREMİ UNUTTUM? Ara Color change in Turkey's salt lake makes stunning view Salt Lake turns red due to seasonal rise in algae, which also attracts flocks of hungry flamingos Turkey 15 Temmuz 2018 Pazar 13:38 World Bulletin / News Desk The stunning changes in color in Turkey’s Salt Lake are attracting visitors both human and feathered to central Anatolia, according to a local official. Turkey’s Salt Lake, located some 150 kilometers (93 miles) from the capital Ankara, spans 1,665 square km (643 square mi.) and is one of the largest hypersaline lakes in the world. After its ice-blue hue during the winter, the lake changes color in summer to a mixture of red and white due to a type of algae called dunaliella salina, said Yusuf Sinan Dogan, a manager at Koyuncu Kaldirim Saltworks. “As this type of algae is a part of the food chain for flamingos, this region also serves as a home to them,” Dogan told Anadolu Agency. The Salt Lake wetland is now one of the world’s most important flamingo nesting grounds, due to the algae’s presence in the lake area. “The redness on the lake surface begins in May due to decreasing rainfall and the rise in the water’s salinity content,” Dogan added. “The red can be seen in May, June, and July. The color vanishes in July when the water level falls.” This change in color from blue to red in the Salt Lake, Turkey’s second largest, is a very rare view in the world. “This year there's a 5-10 centimeter difference in the water level compared to last year due to the heavy rainfall this spring,” Dogan added. Last Mod: 15 Temmuz 2018, 13:38 #Turkey, #salt lake Add Comment Name and Surmane Comment Send 'Turkey always safe and friendly for Germans' Turkey Turkey seeing to own interests in buying S-400, says VP Turkey 'Turkey committed to moving women forward in all areas' Turkey Turkey deals big blow to Daesh in February Turkey EU-Turkey meeting to be held in Brussels Turkey Facebook 882.4B Twitter 26.3B POOL All Pools Did you like our new website design? Yes No RESULTS VOTE PRAYER TIMES FAJR 04:38 TULU 06:24 ZUHR 13:16 ASR 16:58 MAGRIB 19:48 ISHA 21:22 SAYFALAR All Sayfalar PRIVACY AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION POLICY HOME ABOUT US ADVERTORIAL CONTACT + ADD TO YOUR SITE World Islamic World Turkey News Analysis Media Economy Art & Culture Health & Environment Science&Technology History Interviews & In Depth Archive Article & Comment Ramadan Filebox Islamophobia The contents of all material available on this website are copyrighted. Content may not be republished or transferred in any form without the reference. All rights are reserved. World Bulletin / News From Turkey and Islamic World - Copyright © 2019 TE Bilişim
The Scottish Land Fund has announced an award of up to £4.4m to a community bid to buy the island of Ulva and land on the neighbouring Isle of Mull. Only six people, including the landowner, live on Ulva but residents of north-west Mull are also involved in the planned purchase. North West Mull Community Woodland Company now has until 9 June to agree terms with the Ulva estate's owner. They also have until that date to raise remaining funds needed for the bid. The group plans to purchase the estate, which spans 4,942 acres (2,000 ha) and includes Ulva, as well as some land on Mull. Following consultation with local people, the number one priority for community ownership is to attract new residents by increasing economic activity and housing stock. 'Increased visitors' Colin Morrison, chairman of North West Mull Community Woodland Company, said: "This award from the Scottish Land Fund is hugely significant, not only for Ulva but also more broadly for north west Mull. "We aim to have 20 or more people living on Ulva within two or three years, rising to as many as 50 or more in time as new houses are built. "Social and economic development of Ulva will bring benefits to the neighbouring communities on Mull. "Schools, shops, local services and industry will all receive a boost from the increased population and also from the increased number of visitors we are confident we shall see once accommodation and facilities are provided for them on the island." Land Reform Secretary Roseanna Cunningham welcomed the funding announcement. She said: "If the purchase is successful, then I'm sure that the people of Ulva, and its surrounding area, will reap the benefits of community ownership for years to come." 'Momentous day' Scottish Land Fund chairman John Watt said: "It's with great pleasure that the Scottish Land Fund awards this funding to the North West Mull Community Woodland Company. "This means that local people are now one step closer to extending the area the community currently owns, and in doing so putting the future of the island of Ulva firmly in local hands. "It is a momentous day for all those involved and I wish them every success as they go on to raise the remaining funding that will allow them to turn their dreams into reality." In December 2017, following an independent ballot of 401 voters in north west Mull, almost 64% of people were in favour of the community buyout.
When we first visited Folly Farm some 30 years ago this 250-acre plot was up for sale. Gates were hanging from their hinges, the hedges were rampant and the pastures were waist-deep in flowers; the 20th century did not appear to have happened yet, nor even the 19th. These unruly fields were carved from the land, not drawn by a ruler – the first farmers did not go in for squared-off corners as they hacked into the wildwood. The landscape historian Oliver Rackham called this “ancient countryside” (as opposed to the regular fields of “planned countryside” formed by the enclosures) and its pattern may go back as far as the neolithic period. Even in winter, when low, slanting sunlight picks out the details, we can see that Dowlings Wood is a remnant of that wildwood – its boundaries are guarded by banks and ditches that kept livestock out long before barbed wire. The trees are young (the wood was cleared in the second world war) but come spring we will find rare herbs to confirm that the woodland itself is ancient. The shy goldilocks buttercup and the regal herb-paris with its single crown-like flower only survive in woods that have been around for centuries. To these demanding species, planting trees does not make a woodland and felling trees does not destroy one (as long as tree cover is re-established in due time). In the pastures, anthills the size of small sheep confirm the historical evidence that some fields have never seen the plough. Wildflowers describe every change in the soil: wet or dry; deep or shallow; differing aspects or chemistry – the flora varies almost from step to step. Sprays have never been used; dyer’s greenweed, saw-wort and devil’s-bit scabious would disappear at their first touch. Three decades ago this palimpsest of ecological history was in danger of being erased for ever by modern farming methods. Fortunately, Folly Farm was bought by the Avon Wildlife Trust: it has conserved not only the unique character of the land and the profusion of wild species that live here, but also the legible history of a living landscape.
Indonesian state-owned oil company Pertamina has admitted responsibility after days of denials, but suggested the damage to its undersea pipeline was caused by a vessel passing through the area. JAKARTA — An oil spill in Borneo that began over the past weekend has now spread across an area greater than the city of Paris and is heading out to the open ocean, the Indonesian government says. The spill, first reported on March 31, stems from a pipeline operated by state-owned oil firm Pertamina in the city of Balikpapan, in East Kalimantan province. A report released April 4 by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry said the slick was spreading out from Balikpapan Bay and into the Strait of Makassar, covering some 130 square kilometers (50 square miles). Pertamina, which for days had denied responsibility for the disaster, finally admitted on April 4 that one of its pipes used for transporting crude oil was the source of the slick. “Our preliminary investigation had indicated that the oil was ship fuel, but it was only until [the evening of April 3] that we got confirmation that it was from us,” Pertamina general manager Togar M.P. told reporters. “Ever since the incident was discovered, we have shut down the pipes.” The incident has been blamed for the deaths of five fishermen in a fire sparked by clean-up workers who were trying to clear the oil by burning it off the water’s surface. Some 34 hectares (84 acres) of mangrove forests are covered in oil, the environment ministry report said. The slick is also believed to have led to the death of an endangered Irrawaddy dolphin (Orcaella brevirostris), a protected species under Indonesian law, which was found washed up on the coast near the site of the spill. Thousands of people in Balikpapan, a city of 700,000, have also complained about health problems from the toxic slick. Authorities declared a state of emergency in the city on April 3, and warned residents not to light cigarettes in the area. They also distributed gas masks to protect against the acrid fumes and smoke. The East Kalimantan police and Pertamina are investigating the cause of the leak, after divers from the company found the pipe had moved some 100 meters (328 feet) from its initial position on the seabed. Togar suggested “an external heavy force” had caused the damage to the 20-year-old pipe. Balikpapan Bay sees heavy traffic, particularly of coal barges coming through from the Borneo hinterland. The police say a criminal prosecution may follow. Nearly 70,000 liters (18,300 gallons) of oil was collected as of Tuesday evening, and several oil booms have been deployed to contain the spill, the environment ministry said. “We have told our teams and also Pertamina to prioritize cleaning up the spill near settlements, considering the strong smell and other potential risks [from the slick],” Environment and Forestry Minister Siti Nurbaya Bakar said in a statement. Banner image: Indonesian officials clean up parts of the coast of Balikpapan Bay swamped with crude oil. Photo courtesy of the Environment and Forestry Ministry. FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
Coco Palms Resort has laid in ruins since is was damaged by Hurricane Iniki in 1992. Developers Tyler Greene and Chad Waters purchased the land in 2012, with plans to renovate the resort, but for nearly a year, those plans have been complicated by a group of Native Hawaiians who say they are the rightful owners of the property. A civil case on the matter has begun and will continue on Dec. 29. WAILUA — The battle continues over Coco Palms Resort in Wailua, between developers Chad Waters and Tyler Greene and a group of Native Hawaiians who say the land rightfully belongs to them by royal decree. A civil case on the matter has begun and will continue on Friday. The Hawaiians say despite what the judge rules, they have no plans of leaving the 17-acre resort property that has been in ruins since it was damaged by Hurricane Iniki in 1992. “We are going to stay here and put up a big fight,” Kamu Hepa said last week. “There’s no way we can lose.” Back in its glory days, Coco Palms was an icon, with Elvis Presley filming a scene of his movie “Blue Hawaii” in the resort’s lagoon and many celebrities staying at the hotel. Today, it is easily missed during a drive past on Kuhio Highway. Overgrown brush and coconut trees have taken over the property. Palm fronds and rotting coconuts litter the sidewalks once bustling with visitors and hotel staff. None of the buildings or outbuildings are usable. The occupiers live in temporary structures on part of the land near a river close to the mountains. They have cleaned up the area they occupy. In the decades since its destruction, several developers have attempted to restore the hotel. None of them have been successful. With plans on rebuilding, Waters and Greene say they purchased the land in 2012. If development moves forward, the $175 million hotel will boast about 400 rooms, 12,000 square feet of retail space, three restaurants, leisure areas and a four-acre cultural center when completed. Though the occupiers have been on the decrepit property for nearly a year, the $3.5 million selective demolition process began in June, with initial plans to begin the renovation and reconstruction of the resort this coming spring. Hepa said what the courts are doing is treason and against the U.S. Constitution. His family, Hepa said, has documents proving they own the land. “They’re trying to steal our land,” he said. Attempts to reach Greene and Waters for comment on this story have been unsuccessful. Sarah Blane, spokesperson for Kauai County, said county officials are unable to preemptively comment on police matters. Aloha, some do the shade cloth fencing has fallen down on the Kuhio Hwy side of the building…seems like a nice tropical paint job alone would make the “SHELL” of the concrete building look actually very nice while the Hawaiians and the developers go through the process that may take years to conclude. Upper Deck railings installed after the paint job could convert CocoPalms into a 7 day a week Farmers Market and Crafts Fair for the benefit of local farmers, crafts people locals and a fun to do things and shopping for Visitors. Bring in Hawaiian live entertainment and it would be a positive thing for the Island and the Eastside waiting fort he Return of Elvis. While KAUAI is 100 Times more beautiful than Bangkok, Thailand, Bangkok has a local farmers market and crafts fair there called the Chatuchak Market, they have over 15,000 stalls. It takes more than a day to browse them all, maybe a few days. Your sure to bring home some good food farm food, or already prepared and another good memory of KAUAI. It’s the only place suitable for a 7 day a week Market and fair that has roofs over the stalls and bathrooms avail and some one could use the fairly large rent income to assist their endeavor.
WATFORD CITY, N.D. (AP) - A newborn baby was killed and more than two dozen people were injured when a tornado whipped through a North Dakota oil patch city overnight, overturning recreational vehicles and demolishing more than 100 structures, officials said Tuesday. The storm moved through Watford City, in the northwestern part of the state, shortly after midnight, hitting an RV park the hardest, according to sheriff's officials. About 20 of the reported 28 injured were staying at the Prairie View RV Park where high winds overturned some campers and damaged mobile homes. The McKenzie County Sheriff's Office said in a news release late Tuesday that a 1-week-old boy died from injuries sustained when the family's trailer home flipped in the storm. The child's name was not immediately released. National Weather Service meteorologist John Paul Martin classified the tornado as an EF2, which is defined by winds speeds between 111 and 135 mph. He said wind speeds reached 127 mph in Watford City. Clifford Bowden, 37, was in his recreational vehicle when the storm struck. "My dog was with me and the next thing you knew the storm picked up my camper and slammed it on the ground. It felt like we were weightless," Bowden said. "It was scary. I feel like I'm a pretty tough guy. But, this storm, it made me shake uncontrollably," he added. Schwartzenberger said his onsite commander reported 122 structures in the park were completely destroyed. In addition to those structures, there were 79 with moderate damage and 120 with minor to no damage. Karolin Jappe, the McKenzie County emergency manager, said the RV park is one of the largest such facilities to spring up during the oil boom and there were some mobile homes on the property. "It's just like an oversized RV park on steroids," Jappe said. "There's more devastation than a tornado four years ago. RVs flipped over. Trucks underneath RVs," Jappe said. Schwartzenberger says his house half a mile from the RV park suffered siding, shingle and hail damage. "It's a tornado scene," Schwartzenberger said. "It went through and devastated an entire community down there. I'm devastated myself at what has happened. I feel for the families." Schwartzenberger said the park residents were allowed back Tuesday afternoon to collect their belongings. He said the park would then be shut down and that cleanup operations would resume Wednesday morning. "Obviously they are going to be stressed out by what they see because it was pitch black when it first happened," Schwartzenberger said. "That is why we are giving people the whole day to go in there. We want people to have the time to get their stuff." About 150 people, including Bowden, are staying at the Watford City Civic Center where the Red Cross has set up a temporary shelter. North Dakota Lt. Gov. Brent Sanford, a former Watford City mayor who has a home in the city, and Gov. Doug Burgum surveyed the damage Tuesday and met with local officials and displaced residents. Sanford said the extent of the damage is "devastating and mindboggling, with RVs utterly flattened and destroyed." In northeastern Montana, officials said a storm with estimated wind speeds over 100 mph tore through part of a town Monday night. Sheridan County Sheriff Heidi Williamson said a microburst with speeds up to 118 mph destroyed at least nine small airplanes at the airport in Plentywood. No injuries were reported. The storm also uprooted trees, downed power lines and damaged other buildings.
Turkish airstrikes killed at least 36 pro-regime fighters backing Kurdish militia in Syria’s north-west Kurdish enclave of Afrin on Saturday, a monitoring group said. The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces alliance said the Turkish raids targeted pro-regime positions, but gave no death toll. The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the strikes on Kafr Janna were the third such raid on loyalist fighters in the enclave bordering Turkey in less than 48 hours. They came after Turkish raids on other parts of the enclave killed 14 pro-regime fighters on Thursday and four more on Friday, the monitor said. Turkish-led Syrian opposition fighters have advanced steadily since 20 January when they launched an assault on Afrin, controlled by Kurdish YPG units. The Syrian government deployed fighters to the enclave a month later after the Kurds appealed for help. The Observatory says Turkish-led forces control more than 20% of the enclave after seizing the area of Rajo in the north-west of Afrin on Saturday. They also seized a strategic mountain in the north-east of the enclave, a military official from the Turkish-led operation said. Ankara says the YPG is a “terrorist” extension of the Kurdistan Workers’ party (PKK), which has waged a three-decade insurgency against the Turkish state. The YPG has been a key component of a United States-backed Kurdish-Arab alliance that has been fighting Islamic State in Syria. More than 140 civilians have been killed in Turkish bombardment since the start of the assault, but Turkey says it takes the “utmost care” to avoid civilian casualties. Thousands of civilians have fled their homes since the start of the operation, either to Afrin or nearby government-controlled areas.
Almost all encroachments spread over 197 acres of government land in Asola village in south Delhi were removed on Wednesday on orders of the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee, the Delhi government’s Revenue Department said. The remaining encroachments will be removed on Thursday, Revenue Department officials said. Acting on instructions of the Monitoring Committee, a team of the Delhi Police, the Forest Department, power discom BSES and the Revenue Department (South district) carried out the drive with 20 earthmovers and 100 Civil Defence volunteers, the Revenue Department said. Apart from clearing the land of encroachments, the team will secure the sites with fencing and then create permanent boundary walls, before handing over the sites to the respective government departments and gram sabhas. Officials said the Monitoring Committee had visited Asola village on February 19 and issued orders to remove encroachments on government land. On directions of the National Green Tribunal, the forest land was demarcated and detailed maps, with encroachments on forest, gram sabha and other department land, marked separately. The maps were verified by the Revenue Department according to revenue records, officials added. Those who had encroached on land of 42 khasra numbers had been given notices on orders of the Monitoring Committee but they did not remove the encroachments, the Revenue Department officials said. Some of the khasra numbers involved are part of an ongoing investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Of 197 acres, encroachments account for 94 acres of 445 bigha. A total of 226 bigha of forest land spread over 676 bighas, 111 bigha of gram sabha land spread over 126 bigha and 108 bigha of 133 bigha of other departments’ land were encroached, according to the Revenue Department. The land encroached upon is worth about ₹3,000 crores, according to the Revenue Department
SANTA FE, N.M. — Cities, water managers and a key irrigation district along the Rio Grande have agreed to sell water they don’t immediately need to help boost flows along a stretch of the river in central New Mexico to deal with extremely dry conditions and benefit endangered species. The environmental group Audubon New Mexico announced last week that it helped to initiate the agreements, which will amount to more than 320 million gallons (1,200 million liters) being released over a nearly two-month period, the Santa Fe New Mexican reported . “This marks a historic partnership where municipalities have joined with Audubon to help restore a vital ribbon of life,” Paul Tashjian, of Audubon New Mexico, said in a statement. Tashjian declined to provide details on costs or the source of funds being spent to help deal with this year’s drought emergency, but said Belen, Los Lunas and Bernalillo were providing shares of unused water rights “at cost . without profit.” “There are no public funds involved in this partnership,” Tashjian said. “This is a private transaction between Audubon and the four parties.” Al Antonez, general manager of the Club at Las Campanas, confirmed the club is part of the deal but referred all other questions to Tom Egelhoff, director of agronomy. Egelhoff did not return a call from the Santa Fe New Mexican newspaper seeking comment. The collaborative effort will affect the river corridor from near Isleta Pueblo — about 15 miles (24 kilometers) south of Albuquerque — to the Socorro region, providing relief to such creatures as the endangered Rio Grande silvery minnow. “We have some endangered species in or along the river that this will benefit,” said Mike Hamman, chief executive officer of the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District. He referred to species such as the Southwestern willow flycatcher, among others. “This will minimize drying and optimize the water flow.” Both Tashjian and Hamman said they hope future partnerships can be developed to keep the program going. Partners involved in the effort include the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, the Pueblo of Isleta and the Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority, according to the announcement by Audubon. Information from: The Santa Fe New Mexican, http://www.santafenewmexican.com
The US Environmental Protection Agency has dismissed a civil rights case brought by residents of a small, overwhelmingly African American town in Alabama who have spent much of the past decade battling a toxic landfill they blame for causing a myriad of physical and mental illnesses. In a 28-page letter, the EPA said there was “insufficient evidence” that authorities in Alabama had breached the Civil Rights Act by allowing an enormous landfill site containing 4m tons of coal ash to operate near residents in Uniontown. A separate claim that the landfill operator retaliated against disgruntled residents was also turned down. Uniontown has been framed by advocates as one the most egregious examples of environmental racism in the US, where a largely poor and black population has had a polluting facility foisted upon it with little redress. “To say there is insufficient evidence is ludicrous; I just can’t take it seriously,” said Ben Eaton, who has lived in Uniontown for 33 years. Eaton blames regular headaches and burning eyes upon the landfill, which he said has an odor than can be smelled from several miles away. “The protection we’ve got from the government is little to none,” he said. “I can’t help but feel it’s because the population is mainly black and poor. This was forced on us. If this was a white, wealthy community, this would’ve never happened.” The huge Arrowhead landfill rubs up against Uniontown, where about 90% of the population is black and half of the town lives below the poverty line. Arrowhead, operated by Green Group Holdings since 2011, sprawls over an area twice the size of New York City’s Central Park, accepting the waste from 33 different states. The site used to contain a jumble of car parts, electronics and other discarded items until a flood hit a coal plant 330 miles away in Kingston, Tennessee, in 2008. Over the next two years, the clean-up of Kingston involved shifting 4m tons of potentially hazardous coal ash by train to the Arrowhead landfill abutting Uniontown. Coal ash contains toxins such as mercury and arsenic that can affect the nervous and reproductive systems and cause other health problems. According to the EPA, people living within a mile of unlined coal ash storage ponds have a one in 50 risk of developing cancer. Residents, already upset the landfill was placed next to a historic cemetery, began to fret that the coal ash would seep out into the air and water. Some stopped drinking the tap water. Many still spend as little time outdoors as possible due to the smell and swarms of flies. A rash of nosebleeds, breathing difficulties, mental health issues and cancers have been blamed upon the coal ash, although the authorities have not conducted any studies to analyze the potential link. “The shipping of toxic coal ash from a mostly white county in Tennessee to this rural, poor and most black county and community in the Alabama black belt is a textbook case of environmental racism,” said Dr Robert Bullard, an academic who pioneered research that has found people of color are disproportionately blighted by pollution in the US. In 2013, several dozen Uniontown residents filed a complaint under title VI of the Civil Rights Act. EPA officials visited the town and spoke to residents as the Obama administration sought to overhaul a federal system that has rarely invoked anti-discrimination laws to remedy environmental injustices. However, residents’ hopes have now been squashed by the EPA. The agency handled far fewer new legal cases against polluters in the Trump administration’s first year compared with recent years, and it has moved to relax regulations around the disposal of coal ash. Coal plants generate about 130m tons of ash a year, much of it stored in ageing reservoirs that are prone to leaking. “To date we haven’t seen any actions by the Trump administration in support of our most vulnerable communities,” said Mustafa Ali, who worked at the EPA’s office of environmental justice for more than two decades before resigning after Trump’s inauguration. “They continue to weaken or roll back basic protections critical to their survival.” In its letter to the residents’ lawyer, the EPA said there was “no causal connection” between the coal ash and health problems nor any significant threats to Uniontown’s groundwater. In a separate letter to the Alabama department of environmental management, the EPA recommended the state “improve its nondiscrimination complaint process”. Green Group said it had made “significant facility improvements” to Arrowhead since acquiring it in 2011 and exceeded all environmental regulations set out in its state permit. The company recently settled a defamation lawsuit against a handful of Uniontown residents, including Eaton. Marianne Engleman Lado, a lawyer at Yale Law School who has represented residents, said an appeal against the EPA was possible but unlikely. Lado said mere compliance with environmental permits should not negate civil rights concerns. “The decision is frustrating, it’s angering,” she said. “Uniontown is a classic civil rights situation. How can people trust the government if it can’t even recognize how this enormous facility is affecting the community? It’s mind-boggling.”
The Director-General of the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), Muhtari Aminu-Kano, raised an alarm has alerted that erosion may soon wipe off the Lekki Conservation Centre in Lagos. Mr Aminu-Kano told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) over the weekend that sand filling, dredging and land reclamation activities in various communities in the area had directly threatened the existence of the park. According to him, the development has endangered various animal and plant species in the reserve, requiring urgent intervention of the Lagos and Federal Government to save the reserve. “Our problem is that with recent developments, we have become an island. “This is one of the only few places where you have dense population of trees and animals and what that means is that all the buildings around us have raised the land above us so, we are now in a depression. “When the rains come, all the water drains into this reserve. So we have a lot of flooding and areas that are not normally flooded are now flooded. “We have, however, done a study and we are trying to improve the drainage without disturbing the natural ecosystem. “But another problem we have is that of shoreline erosion.’’ He noted that with the ongoing protection of the Bar Beach shoreline and land “That is why we are asking the authorities, both Lagos State and the federal government, especially the Ecological Funds Office, to do something urgently. “Our appeal is not just for us alone but all the communities around us living or deriving their livelihoods from this area.’’ He said that the NCF was also speaking to researchers and other interests on ways to explore the bio-diversity of the reserve. Mr Aminu-Kano, however, lauded Akinwunmi Ambode, the governor of Lagos State, for providing some facilities and constructing a major perimeter road to facilitate access to the park. He appealed for more support to boost tourism at the park, lamenting that forests and game reserves in the country were facing deforestation, due to human activities. (NAN)
Mongabay has obtained a new, high-resolution satellite image of Petroamazona’s suspected pipeline and drilling platforms in the famed Ishpingo-Tambococha-Tiputini (ITT) block. Obtained from Planet, the image was analyzed by the team at the Monitoring of the Andean Amazon Project (MAAP) just after Ecuador announced it had begun drilling in arguably the most biodiverse place on the planet. With a resolution of three meters, the image shows a snaking pipeline amid the unbreakable green of the rainforest that ends in rectangles, which are believed to be oil platforms. The picture is especially important given a blackout on outside monitoring of the ITT drilling. “The government has not allowed any independent monitoring by scientists, journalists, or civil society. The well site is militarized, and aerial flyovers and images are prohibited,” said Kevin Koenig, the Ecuador Program Director at Amazon Watch. “The lack of transparency and independent monitoring are contrarian to any credible due diligence process.” Low impact? The Ecuadorean government has claimed the new drilling will impact less than one percent of the Yasuni National Park. But critics contend that this doesn’t take into account any secondary impacts from oil drilling operations, including potentially new roads, infrastructure and an army of oil workers. “It is well known that building roads into the interior of a national park comprised of rainforest with an abundance of rivers will inevitably lead to colonization, deforestation, game depletion and continuing degradation of the very things national parks are designed to protect,“ Adrian Forsyth, the director of Amazon Conservation Association, said. Such destruction begins with oil workers infiltrating the region, according to Kelly Swing, the director of the Tiputini Biodiversity Station in Yasuni. “[The workers] are shown tremendous concentrations of previously unexploited wild game. Subsequently, after they finish their temporary work assignments with oil crews, many come back as hunters.” Swing added that such activities were “effectively subsidized by oil companies.” This story has been repeated throughout Yasuni, since vast areas of the park have been exploited for oil development since the 1970s. Oil-exploited areas have gone on to be infiltrated by the usual crews of poachers, illegal loggers and colonizers and have often faced near-constant oil spills. “Considering that seismic surveys put hundreds of personnel into the forest to carry out noisy activities in a grid pattern every few hundred meters across the entire landscape, we can say that at least 80 percent of the region actually suffers some level of impact,” Swing said. Critics said that Ecuador could potentially reduce such destruction if it stuck to an inland-offshore oil development model, which would not allow any additional road building to the new oil platforms but instead use helicopters and river transport to reach the well heads. The inland-offshore model – which basically treats the oil platforms as if they are in the ocean – has been in use in some project in deep rainforests such as the Camisea natural gas project in Peru and the Urucú gas project in Brazil. “Oil exploitation in Yasuni is a given fact already announced for a long time,” Enrique Oritz, Vice President of the Amazon Conservation Association, wrote to Mongabay in an email. “If modern technology and conditions are applied, the environmental risks may be reduced and/or prevented.” Oritz added that such a course would require “full transparency,” but that to date has not happened. But the inland, offshore model is considerably more expensive than more traditional, road-dependent models and several experts interviewed believed that Petroamazonas was making no effort to maintain ITT blocks as a strict inland offshore project. Skepticism is further driven by the fact that the Ecuadorian government allowed Petroamazonas to build a massive road into the adjacent Block 31 even though it had pledged no oil roads there. The government refers to this road as an “ecological trail,” but it’s a trail that can fit several large bulldozers side-by-side. Even an inland, offshore operation can have significant impact, according to Koenig. He points to Block 10 as an example where Petrozamazonas employed helicopters and a monorail to bring materials in-and-out of drilling sites. “Twenty helicopter flights a day scared away wildlife, and the break in the canopy from the monorail and flowlines – albeit smaller than a road – was enough to keep animals away.” Eventually, colonists came anyway, following the monorail that had been cut through the jungle. “There has yet to be an example of responsible oil extraction in the Amazon,” Koenig said. “In places that are so ecologically fragile and culturally sensitive as Yasuni, even best industry practices—if followed—would not properly protect the forest and its peoples. Yasuni is a place that should simply be off limits to drilling. “ Perhaps the most damning criticism of the oil operations – even an offshore inland model ­– is that it further infringes on land held by indigenous tribes that have chosen to remain isolated from the outside world. Deep in Yasuni live the Tagaeri and Taromenane tribes, a part of the larger Waorani indigenous groups. The Tagaeri and Taromenane tribes only remaining uncontacted indigenous groups in Ecuador. The isolated groups have met outsides with violence, including spearing illegal loggers and other Waorani to death. Petroamazonas push into ITT not only potentially puts at risk its workers, but also the Tagaeri-Taromenane. The tribes, which may only number a few dozen in total, are hugely vulnerable to common disease with which they have had little contact and therefore developed little immunity. Mortality rates after contact have been known to wipe out half of whole communities and experts fear that pushing oil deeper into Yasuni could result in the total extinction of these two tribes. Oritz said that while he thought the environmental impacts of oil exploitation “can be prevented to minimized” the same was not true of “the social and cultural issues.” “Those are more dangerous than environmental ones,” he added. Yasuni’s ITT block is arguably the world’s most controversial oil drilling site as the wells will sit directly in what scientists believe is the most biodiverse place on Earth. “Based on all reliable estimates, well over 10 percent of all species on the planet live here,” said Kelly. “This represents a truly unique opportunity to save a huge proportion of the planet’s natural heritage as well as a daunting responsibility.” Research has shown that this area of the world has the highest known diversity of mammals, birds, amphibians and vascular plants. Indeed, it’s often pointed out that a single hectare in Yasuni National Park contains more tree species than are native to the U.S. and Canada combined. In a bid to protect ITT, Ecuador proposed a radical idea in 2007. It would forgo drilling in Yasuni’s ITT block (though it continued to drill across much of the rest of the park) if the international community pledged $3.6 billion (about half of the then expected revenue) to a United Nations Development Program-run fund. The ITT Initiative, as it was called, was billed as a way to protect biodiversity, combat climate change and safeguard indigenous populations. But in 2013, Ecuador abandoned the program citing that it had only raised $330 million or nine percent of the total. Ecuador has become hugely dependent on oil revenue to fund its governmental operations, a dependence that has only become more desperate as oil prices have fallen. Swing said Ecuador’s dilemma is “the same for the entire world.” “How can we escape from the all powerful, money-driven oil industry that has been so willing to do essentially anything to maintain its grip on the throat of the world by manipulating markets and public opinion everywhere?” In Ecuador’s case, Swing said the country should focus more on developing and promoting eco-tourism instead of exploiting its protected areas. “With so many species in so little space [in Yasuni], it is quite obvious that a visitor has the potential to see more species in less time and for less expense that anywhere else on the planet, but no one knows that because hardly anyone, inside or outside the country, has even bothered to check such details and because there has been so little promotion over the years.” The first wells in the ITT block have been tapped and started producing. Many more are expected to follow.
UPDATE: Evacuated individuals may now safely return to their homes and businesses. The Akron Fire Department has determined there is no ongoing risk of chemical exposure in the area and the scene is fully secure. Fire crews and other emergency services in Ohio are responding to an explosion and fire at Emerald Performance Materials in Akron, officials and witnesses say. The surrounding area is being evacuated as a precaution. The incident happened at about 1 p.m. ET on Wednesday when an explosion occurred at the chemical plant, which is located at 240 West Emerling Avenue in South Akron. Thick plumes of black smoke were seen billowing from the scene. All employees are accounted for and there were no reports of serious injuries. Two people were taken to Akron General Medical Center to assess complaints of coughing symptoms, according to the Akron Police Department. The chemical involved in the explosion is butadiene, but officials believe there has been no mass release or plume that could impact the general public. Exposure to the chemical can cause irritation to eyes, throat, nose, and lungs. As a precaution, residents and businesses within a half mile radius from Emerald Performance Materials have been told to self-evacuate. Residents who are in need of assistance with the evacuation are advised to call 330-375-2101. Evacuees are being transported to the UA Student Union at 303 Carroll Street. Parking is free on all UA parking lots for those who are picking up evacuated individuals. The Carroll Street parking lot is the closest lot available. Akron METRO RTA said its offices on Kenmore Boulevard were among those evacuated as a result of the fire. “At this time, we cannot take your calls and there may be delays in service,” the company said on Twitter.
The sheep are living skeletons, so emaciated the Jones family can’t even use them to feed themselves “unless we ate soup every day”. The cattle are so hungry they are scraping dried moss off rocks with their teeth and chasing stray leaves that blow off trees. The Sunday Telegraph has been visiting farms throughout the rain-starved state, where many areas are suffering the driest conditions since records began in 1900. At Goolhi, west of Gunnedah, the Joneses are in an impossible situation. Even if they could find an abattoir wiling to buy their livestock, which is highly unlikely, the sheep are too gaunt to legally put on a truck. But they’ve run out of money to buy increasingly scarce hay and increasingly expensive grain. Currently, 10 sheep a day die from starvation on the 670ha property, so the most humane option is to shoot them all. “We own an old dozer and the husband is finding somewhere on the farm to dig a big hole and push them in,” Les’s wife Laura said. “We don’t have any choice but to shoot them. We’ve tried our utmost to keep them alive, but how can we?” Visitors are warned not to accept a cup of tea from Mrs Jones because the remaining 60cm of drinking water in the family’s rainwater tank is infused with the whiff of mosquito larvae and dead mice. Each night Les, Laura and daughter Lillie take turns to have a bath in the same water, which turns black before it’s emptied. The farming family rations its bottled water, which is all they have to drink. All 12 dams on the property are either dry or contain just a few centimetres of brown water, which they’ve had to fence off because sheep were getting stuck and dying in the muddy banks. There isn’t any nutritious pasture left on the property — just red dirt and tufts of razor grass, which the livestock won’t eat because it cuts their mouths. The drought is taking its toll on Lillie, 15, the couple’s only child, who doesn’t want to leave her home behind but understands her parents have no choice but to sell up. “I’m going to lose my home one day soon, which upsets me because I love it here,” Lillie said. “But there’s no feed, no water and when the last dam dries up we won’t have any choice but to leave.” WORST DROUGHT IN MORE THAN 100 YEARS NOW ON SYDNEY’S DOORSTEP Lillie has spent every day of school holidays helping her dad, which means dragging dead sheep out of paddocks. Lillie’s parents constantly worry about her. They describe her as “utterly heartbroken”. Les Jones “doesn’t have a clue” what he’ll do when he shuts the gate for the last time on the farm he’s lived on for 60 years. “I don’t read and write too good and I’ve been on the land all my life,” he said. The current drought is the worst he’s ever endured and while the constant death and devastation is “f … king hard”, it will be harder still to leave. In an ordinary year, the property is highly productive and can sustain 1500 merino sheep or 500 angus cattle. The farm has been up for sale since 2014 and is valued at $1.5 million on paper, even though there’s currently not a single blade of green grass and it’s impossible to make any money off it. The Jones’ neighbours are no better off and have listed their properties for sale as well. The family would have been forced off the land sooner, if it had not been for the generosity of Australia’s largest farming charity Aussie Helpers and founder Brian Egan. In just three hours in a car with Mr Egan yesterday, as reception faded in and out, The Sunday Telegraph watched the text messages and emails constantly come in. They ranged from straightforward requests for assistance to gruff-sounding farmers admitting they don’t have mental fortitude “to keep burying cows every day”. Mr Egan will today visit an elderly farming family in Gilgandra near Dubbo who are shearing wool off dead sheep because they need the $80 they can make from each fleece. Aussie Helpers currently supports more than 150 farming families with groceries and livestock feed at a cost of more than $100,000 a month without government funding. Mr Egan backed The Sunday Telegraph’s campaign for state and federal governments to reinstate freight subsidies for fodder and water, bring back drought declarations, and make it easier for farming families to access modest welfare payments.
Jalna (Maharashtra), June 23 : When massive crop failure and farmers' suicide afflicted the Marathwada region in Maharashtra during the 2012-16 drought, farmers in three villages of Jalna district were not much concerned about the lack of rainfall. A watershed project had obviated their need to look at the heavens every season. Enough water was available in the 1,888 hectares area comprising the three villages -- Kadwanchi, Nandapur and Waghrul -- since late 1990s. The project has become famous as the Kadwanchi model since it helps grow grapes, a water-intensive crop. "Hardly anybody knew of grapes 20 years ago. Now, 95 per cent of farmers in the area cultivate grapes. There used be drought in our villages. After the project was implemented, we never faced water scarcity. Farmers here are lakhpatis now," Chandrakant Kshirsagar, farmer and sarpanch of Kadwanchi village, told IANS during a visit to the village. The 45-year-old farmer says he has been making handsome profit every year by cultivating grapes on his 15-acres semi-arid land, irrespective of rainfall, which was up to 50 per cent less than the normal during the drought years. The farm produce has sustained 355 families in the three villages. The project involved building continuous contour and absorption trenches in the hills and bunding (or earthen embankments) on farm boundaries to recharge ground water and stop soil erosion. Also, check dams were constructed at several spots to store large volumes of water. Later, several small ponds in farms were constructed through a separate government scheme, which boosted the water management programme. "Earlier, we could not make effective use of monsoon water since most of it would run off. In addition, it would cause soil erosion, thus reducing nutrition content from soil. If soil is conserved, water will be conserved automatically. Under the watershed project, we took several measures to arrest soil erosion and water to recharge underground water-table," said social activist Vijay Borade, who conceptualised the project. The project was implemented in the three villages by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under the Indo-German Watershed Project from 1996 to 2002. Borade, a recipient of Maharashtra's Krishi Bhushan award, said their measures paid off. "None of the farmers in this area has complained of water scarcity, even during summers. They are cultivating water-intensive crops and getting better remuneration," he added. According to Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA)-- a National Research Institute under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research -- cultivation of grape increased exponentially after the project was completed. Pandit Wasre, Agriculture Engineer at the Jalna KVK, who was also part of the watershed project, said the region was vulnerable to drought but the farmers now have year-round access to water, allowing them to cultivate their land twice in a year. "It has been just 97mm of rainfall in eight days so far and all check dams are full. Also, water can be seen in farms due to bunding. The volume of partial failure of crops has come down significantly due to the project," Wasre said. He said adoption of the cost-effective Kadwanchi model can make the farmers in the Marathwada region self-sufficient in water. Bhagwan Kshirsagar, a grape grower from the area, says he is planing to cultivate export quality grape variety, which would help him fetch more money. "Initial investment is a little more. But we are quite confident of returns due to water availability," Kshirsagar said. While the Marathwada region has been in limelight for farmers' suicide in the past few years -- with 900 farmers killing themselves in 2016 -- Kshirsagar said farmers from the watershed area never faced financial distress. According to the KVK data, agriculture income from this watershed area was Rs 27 crore in 2012-13 when rainfall was just 29 per cent of the annual average. In 2015-16, the income rose to Rs 42 crore when rainfall was 60 per cent. Before the watershed project, the average yearly income in the villages was Rs 77 lakh. Local farmers said the annual yield of grapes ranges between 12 and 15 tonnes per acre every year, while some managed to get up to 20 tonnes. They also grow cotton, pigeon pea, green gram, sorghum and corn. Now, villagers in the area are planning to cultivate guava, as the government has shown interest in fruit juice production, Borade said. He said the Kadwanchi model is being adopted in nearby areas. "The model cannot be exactly same owing to different land use and climatic conditions, but people can take inspiration from this model and develop their own," Borade added. (Saurabh Katkurwar was in Jalna at the invitation of Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Company Private Limited (Mahyco). He can be contacted at saurabh.k@ians.in)
A father and his 11-year-old daughter were killed when an avalanche swept them away while they were skiing in the French Alps, rescue officials have said. They said the man, 43, and his daughter were from the Paris region and had been skiing in the Pisaillas glacier area of the Val d’Isère resort that had been closed because of the avalanche risk. They were found in a hollow surrounded by cliffs at an altitude of about 2,930 metres (9,670 feet) in the early afternoon on Sunday. The exact circumstances of the accident were not yet known, and prosecutors in nearby Albertville have opened an investigation. A cross-country skier was also killed in the region in an off-piste area near the Giettaz-en-Aravis ski resort. Two skiers who were caught in an another avalanche in Switzerland near the border with France were rescued with only minor injuries, police in the canton of Valais said. Police initially reported that 10 people were missing in the incident but revised that down to two, saying a member of the group who had called in the accident was unaware that most of the group were safe. The avalanche took place at an altitude of 2,500 metres in an area called the Col de Fenestral.
Fires have been reported across several states in the southern United States and NASA's Aqua satellite using its MODIS instrument captured this image of the fires and smoke across the expanse. This image taken on November 12, 2016 show several fires and smoke across the states of North and South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee. The Boteler fire was discovered burning on the Tusquitee Ranger District of the National Forests of North Carolina 15 miles east of Murphy, North Carolina on October 25. It is located in a roadless area on the Nantahala National Forest west of Chunky Gal Mountain near Hayesville. Fire officials responded immediately upon discovery, however steep, rugged terrain and extremely dry conditions provided an unsafe environment for firefighters to attack the fire directly at its edge. Although large helicopters dropped water on the fire and slowed its progression, it has continued to grow. It is currently at 8,695 acres. The cause of the fire is unknown. The Maple Springs fire (which merged with the Avey fire) is located north of Santeetlah Lake. East of the Maple Springs Fire, the Old Roughy Fire started on November 8th, 2016 and is also being managed by the Blue Team. The fires are active with wind and terrain driven uphill runs and is burning in harwood litter and brush. The Maple Springs fire is 7,177 acres in size. This fire was human caused. The Tellico Fire started on November 3 and was human caused. The fire is currently 13,676 acres in size. This fire and several others are collectively referred to as the Nantahala Branch Fires and included in the Boteler Fire's daily update. The Party Rock fire began November 5, 2016 on Chimney Rock State Park land about 1 mile north of Lake Lure. The cause of this wildfire is still under investigation. It's currently 3,457 acres in size. Winds are contributing to the spread of the fire. Firefighters are concentrating on structure protection and burnout operations. The Chestnut Knob fire began on November 08, 2016 and the cause of the fire is currently under investigation. It is currently 2,850 acres in size and the fires is exhibiting moderate fire behavior with uphill runs. Structure protection and triage are what firefighters at this blaze are concentrating on. The Rough Ridge fire burning in Georgia, is 19,411 acres and is 20% contained. The fire is located in the Cohutta Wilderness Area on the Chattahoochee National Forest. Currently there was minimal ire activity overnight as temperatures cooled and humidity levels increased. Structure protection efforts continue around private properties near the fire. The Rock Mountain fire is a human caused wildfire which is currently 4,100 acres in size. It is located near Talulaha River Road, on the Straw Mountain within the Chattahoochee National Forest. Lower winds and stable atmosphere are predicted in the area for today and tomorrow. Smoke effects on visibility may impact air operations. Ongoing exceptional to extreme drought conditions are the major factor in ongoing and/or escalating fire behavior. This natural-color satellite image was collected by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) aboard the Aqua satellite. Actively burning areas, detected by MODIS's thermal bands, are outlined in red. NASA image courtesy Jeff Schmaltz, MODIS Rapid Response Team. Caption: NASA/Goddard, Lynn Jenner with information from EOSDIS and Inciweb.
The Hawaii volcano that’s been erupting in a residential neighborhood for the past two months has built a cone that’s now about the height of 10-story Aloha Tower. U.S. Geological Survey scientists said Monday the cone is 180 feet high at its tallest point. Honolulu Harbor’s Aloha Tower reaches 184 feet. Scientists call it fissure 8 because it was the eighth vent to open during the eruption. It’s feeding a river of lava that’s flowing downhill to the ocean.
Rescuers work at the flood-affected area in Lai Chau province, north of Vietnam, on June 25, 2018. Flash floods and landslides caused by heavy rain on the weekend in Vietnam's northern mountainous region had left seven people dead and 12 others missing, the country's Central Steering Committee for Natural Disaster Prevention and Fight said on Monday.(Xinhua/VNA) HANOI, June 25 (Xinhua) -- Flash floods and landslides caused by heavy rain on the weekend in Vietnam's northern mountainous region had left seven people dead and 12 others missing, the country's Central Steering Committee for Natural Disaster Prevention and Fight said on Monday. The dead people consisted of five in Lai Chau province and two in Ha Giang province, and all the people listed as missing by Monday morning are in lai Chau, including nine in Sin Ho district. The floods and landslides have swept away hundreds of houses and damaged some sections of national and provincial roads, causing serious traffic congestions in Lai Chau. The natural disasters have caused property losses of some 76.6 billion Vietnamese dong (nearly 3.4 million U.S. dollars) in the four provinces of Lai Chau, Ha Giang, Lao Cai and Thai Nguyen, said the committee. In the first five months of this year, natural disasters in Vietnam killed 13 local people, injured 21 others, destroyed or damaged nearly 11,000 houses, damaged 6,100 hectares of rice and other crops, and killed 8,200 cattle and 3,500 poultry, leaving property losses of over 544 billion Vietnamese dong (nearly 24 million U.S. dollars), according to the country's General Statistics Office.
At least four people died and another eight went missing after torrential rains triggered a landslide at Thamarassery in Kerala’s Kozhikode district on Thursday. Kozhikode district collector UV Jose said five houses were also destroyed. Police said they have recovered four bodies until now, and are searching for the missing people. A team of National Disaster Relief Force personnel has been rushed to the area. At least 12 other landslides were also reported from Wayanad and Kannur districts, with monsoon thundershowers continuing to lash the northern part of the state. Many houses located in the high ranges were destroyed, and cash crops worth crores of rupees destroyed. At least 2,000 people have been shifted to relief camps across the three districts. First Published: Jun 14, 2018 15:09 IST
A sixth was injured following the region’s deadliest avalanche this winter, in Entraunes, near the French Alps’ Italian border. The group, which included a guide, was skiing off-piste in the remote region of the Mercantour national park when the avalanche struck, authorities said. France had warned fresh snow brought in by the “Beast from the East” weather front increased the risk of an avalanche. The latest tragedy brings the death toll of the French ski season to 16. An avalanche in the Pyrenees mountains on February 15 which killed three skiers was previously the deadliest. It comes just a week after skier Jordan Waugh, 23, from York, fell to his death in the French Alps trying to help a friend in difficulties near the Alpe d’Huez resort. Jordan’s mother Karen, her partner Andy, father Nick and sister Kennedy paid tribute, with Karen saying: “The most important thing for us is that Jordan was with his friends.
Greater Noida (Uttar Pradesh) [India], July 18 (ANI): Three people, including builder and his two associates, have been arrested in connection with Greater Noida building collapse incident on Wednesday. "We have recovered three bodies. Their identity is still unknown. Three of them were either working as security guards or as labours. The rescue operation will take some more time. We have called big machines for the same. Also, we have arrested three people in the case," Inspector General, Meerut, Ram Kumar told ANI. Two under-construction buildings collapsed in the village under Bisrakh police station limits here on Tuesday night. So far three bodies have been recovered while several people are feared trapped under the debris. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials are conducting the search operation. "We have recovered three bodies. Their identity is still unknown. Three of them were either working as security guards or as labours. The rescue operation will take some more time. We have called big machines for the same. Also, we have arrested three people in the case," Inspector General, Meerut, Ram Kumar told ANI. Soon after the mishap, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath took cognisance of the incident and asked the District Magistrate to follow up with the National Disaster Response Force team and Police for relief measures and to ensure immediate rescue. Meanwhile, State's Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya took note of the incident and assured the residents that the government will make all efforts to rescue the victims. "There has been news of building collapse in Greater Noida. There is a possibility of some family members being trapped in the debris of the building. The District Administration and the NDRF team has been sent for relief and rescue work. Our government is with kin of victims," said Maurya. (ANI)
Mangaluru: Kasaravalli in Navoor village of Belthangady taluk situated in the foothills of Kudremukh was the hub of activity on Sunday with environmentalists and nature lovers launching a unique programme to plant saplings of fruit bearing trees. The habitat comes under Kudremukh National Park (KNP). Amidst heavy rain, 62 nature lovers visited the small village to participate in the 'Hasiru Hodike,' project organised by National Environment Care Federation (NECF). The saplings were planted in land which was recently taken over by the forest department from those who had opted to move out of the National Park under the rehabilitation scheme. Several forest dwellers within KNP have voluntarily handed over their land to the forest department after receiving compensation. As per procedure, the forest department clears all the commercial crops like coconut, arecanut, coffee and rubber after taking control of the land to ensure that it is reclaimed and gets natural forest growth. With the help of the forest department, NECF along with nature lovers has decided to plant saplings in one such area in the foothills of Kudremukh peak. "We have planted 318 saplings of various varieties found in the Western Ghats. We will go to the place again to check their growth," NECF state secretary Shashidhar Shetty said. Sahyadri Sanchaya convener Dinesh Holla feels planting fruit bearing trees in the border areas would not only help in increasing the green cover but could stop wild animals from entering the villages. "In many places, herbivorous animals enter villages in search of food. This results in damage to the crops of villagers. The presence of fruit bearing trees in the borders of the forest could stop the animals from entering the village,"activist Dinesh Holla told Deccan Chronicle. "Already Western Ghat's natural green cover is disappearing due to various projects and illegal activities by private individuals and planters. This move is a small effort to increase the natural green cover in the border areas of Kudremukh forest," he said.
SINGAPORE: Environmental campaigner Greenpeace accused Singapore's Wilmar International, the world's largest palm oil processor, of having links to palm oil-related deforestation despite its previous commitments to safeguard tropical forests. Greenpeace accused Gama, a palm oil business set up by Wilmar's co-founder Martua Sitorus, of causing deforestation in Indonesia. The environmental group said analysis of trade data showed that Wilmar continued to trade palm oil from Gama, despite being aware that Gama was violating Wilmar's No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation policy by clearing rainforest. "Wilmar must immediately cut off all palm oil suppliers that can't prove they aren't destroying rainforests," said Kiki Taufik, global head of Greenpeace Southeast Asia's Indonesian forests campaign. Wilmar promised in 2013 to seek to end purchases of palm oil grown on deforested land. In 2015, it opened its supply chains to outside scrutiny in a move that was lauded by environmentalists. Wilmar did not have an immediate response to a Reuters request for a comment on the Greenpeace report. Calls to the Gama offices in Jakarta went unanswered after business hours. Concerns about the amount of forests and peat lands cleared for plantations - and the greenhouse gases that are then emitted into the atmosphere - have plagued the palm oil industry for years. Palm oil is used in products including margarine, soap and biodiesel. Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use.
Mangaluru/Udupi: The coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada witnessed a heavy rainfall on Saturday. Brimming rivers flooded various places in the two districts, while two died after a compound wall fell on their house at Puttur, near here, early on Saturday morning. Dinghies and boats had to be deployed to shift several families to safer places. The police said that Parvathi (70) and her grandson Dhanush (11) were sleeping in a room at their house at Hebbarbail when a 15-feet compound wall of their neighbouring house fell on the room around 1.45 am. They died instantly, the police said. As the rain was heavy since Saturday morning, schools and colleges declared a holiday at Moodabidri, Belthangady, Sullia and Mangaluru. The district administration asked respective school administrations to decide on holidays depending on the situation in their areas. People from a rain-hit area being shifted from Shibaroor and Soorinje near Mangaluru on Saturday Traffic between Udupi and Mangaluru was severely affected as the road was flooded at Padubidri, and vehicles had to be diverted through Belman. With low-lying areas in Shibaroor and Soorinje of Mangaluru taluk being flooded, fire brigade personnel shifted 18 people to a safer place with the help of boats. Though the water levels increased in Kumaradhara and Netravati rivers, officials said that they were below the danger level. Landslides and flooding were reported from different parts of the district. At Uppinangady, three swimmers, five home guards and officials were deployed as the water level reached 23.5 metres, which is very close to the danger mark of 26.5 metres. In Udupi district, a pregnant woman, whose house was flooded near Katapadi Kalsanka, was shifted in a boat to a safer place. As several houses were flooded at Majoor village, 35 people were shifted to a temporary shelter. Residents of Moodubelle, Kodankooru, Uliyaragoli in Kundapur and Mallaru too were shifted to safer places.
As the summer sun continues to beat down on the British Isles, ghosts are appearing in the yellowing fields. Normally kept hidden by lush grasses and crops, old and prehistoric features are making themselves known through imprints on fields and lawns, some for the first time in known memory. It's hard to see these features from the ground - but with the rise of drones for aerial photography, they can be captured where they may have remained unidentified in previous heatwaves. The marks are revealed when grass or crops on top of wood or stone still in the ground flourish or deteriorate at different rates to surrounding material in the unusually hot weather. In County Meath, Ireland, one aerial photographer made a discovery that turned out to be far more significant than he initially realised. Anthony Murphy, 44, captured pictures of a henge, using his drone in Newgrange. And when he noticed the "amazing detail", he "giggled with excitement, expecting someone to pinch and wake me up". The henge, in a field close to other late Neolithic monuments, is "entirely new" and includes "extraordinary and unexpected" features, according to Stephen Davis, assistant professor in archaeology at University College Dublin. This revelation, by the river Boyne, brings the total number of monuments in a 1.5km (one-mile) stretch to an estimated seven, according to Mr Davis. "The area in front of Newgrange is, I believe, now the densest concentration of these monuments anywhere in the world," he said. Ditches created by the henge retain more moisture than surrounding soil, enabling crops above to grow more healthily. There are no plans to dig on the site, which is a working farm. And once the crop is harvested, the image will disappear. Meanwhile, in Clumber Park, in Nottinghamshire, a large estate owned by the National Trust, a spectacular ghost of a building is emerging. The building that once stood on these imprints is Clumber House - a grand 18th-Century mansion demolished in 1938 after a series of fires and economic downturn. Rooms and corridors became visible as stone foundations left in the ground heated up more quickly than surrounding material, scorching the soil above to a lighter shade, according to Ben Mason at the National Trust. Although the mansion itself is not a new discovery, a previously unknown sundial in front of the lawn has been identified. "Even our longest-serving staff, who have been here since the 1970s, can't remember seeing this much detail. It's very unusual," Mr Mason said. Next month, archaeologists will dig at the site to determine whether cellars not demolished in 1938 are still accessible. At the end of June, markings appeared in farmland close to an airfield at Lasham, Hampshire, a reminder of the area's war-time history. You might also be interested in: Lasham Airfield was an RAF station during World War Two and is still in use as an active airfield, although a small part of it returned to farmland after the war. Jordan Bridge, who works at the Lasham Gliding Club, captured images of the almost forgotten runways. "In seven years' flying, I've never seen these appear before," the 20-year-old said. Knowing the history of the site, he waited over a week to take the perfect shots of the crop circles. "What I really wanted was the detail of the taxiways and aircraft dispersal patterns from the 1940s that I've seen in old photos of the airfield," he said. In Gawthorpe Hall, Lancashire, the dry weather has brought back a Victorian garden, even if it is now a mere shadow of its former self. Museum manager Rachel Pollitt said that while it appeared most summers, this year it was "quite spectacular" and that parts of previous gardens had possibly also been revealed.
In China, where most rivers are deprived of large mammals due to habitat destruction and over-exploitation, a healthy population of Eurasian otters (Lutra lutra) was recently found to thrive right in a city of over 200,000 people, due mainly to the joint support of conservation initiatives and Tibetan Buddhism. Yushu, located on the eastern Tibetan Plateau, is the capital city of the Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture. Two rivers — Zhaqu and Changu — flow through the city to join the Tongtian River in the east, the headwater of the Yangtze river. During a one-month survey, researchers from Shanshui Conservation Center recorded Eurasian otter activities 66 times with seven camera traps. Over 200 spraints (otter dung) and footprints were also discovered along 45 kilometers (about 28 miles) of river, indicating a thriving population of the species. The Eurasian otter used to be heavily hunted for its pelt. As it is now listed under CITES Appendix I and the Schedules of Nationally Protected Fauna and Flora in China, stricter law enforcement has reduced hunting. Even so, its population continues to decline, according to the IUCN, and the species has become locally extinct in most of its former range in many parts of the country. Being a top predator of the freshwater ecosystem, the Eurasian otter is susceptible to pollution and habitat destruction, both of which are common in most waterbodies in China. So, what spared this population in Yushu from the fate of disappearing? One unique fact about Yushu is that over 95 percent of its population is Tibetan. Consequently, this area is heavily influenced by Tibetan Buddhist traditions, which support the conservation of individual organisms and habitats in many ways. A fundamental component of Buddhism is love and compassion for all living beings. It comes from the idea of reincarnation and the belief that an animal could be one’s parent, sibling, or friend in another life. While meat consumption is necessary for local herders to survive in the harsh climate of Tibet, many choose to eat larger animals like yaks, so that fewer lives are taken. For this reason, many locals do not eat fish or other aquatic creatures, securing ample food sources for the otters. Also, the locals believe that cutting trees on sacred mountains will offend mountain gods, and, similarly, polluting water sources will infuriate the water gods. By protecting sacred natural sites in Tibetan Buddhism, people are also conserving important wildlife habitats. What’s more, the demand for otter pelts in the Tibetan region has been drastically reduced in recent years due to the advocacy of religious leaders against the use of animal fur. With pro-nature cultural traditions combined with effective conservation initiatives, the chances of survival for otters become even higher. Since the late 20th century, the Chinese government has set conservation as a priority in the Sanjiangyuan region, a 316,000-square-kilometer (more than 78-million-acre) area that includes the headwaters of three great Asian rivers: the Yangtze, the Yellow, and the Mekong. Over 40 percent of the land in this area has been designated as the Sanjiangyuan Nature Reserve, and a series of conservation projects are in place, including grassland restoration, a firearm ban, and anti-poaching measures. Being part of the Sanjiangyuan region, Yushu benefits greatly from these projects. This is not the first time that Tibetan Buddhism has been found to support conservation goals. His Holiness the 17th Gyalwang Karmapa, the head of the Karma Kagyu School of Tibetan Buddhism, published a paper in Conservation Biology in 2011 discussing how Buddhism shares many values with the environmental movement. In the case of snow leopards (Panthera uncia), researchers demonstrated that Tibetan Buddhist monasteries and sacred mountains offer valuable habitat protection to this iconic species in the area. When domestic sheep and yaks are killed by snow leopards, local herders often show great sympathy and understanding towards the predators. Retaliatory killing rarely occurs here, in sharp contrast to other areas in China with frequent human-wildlife conflicts. Of course, from a conservationist’s perspective, traditional values have many facets, and not all are beneficial. In the same rivers where the otters live, people have been releasing fish as a practice of sparing lives that were to be slaughtered. Most of these non-native fish would die, but a few carp species appear to be doing well, raising concerns over invasive species. Conservationists working in this area must address these kinds of challenges in ways that the local people are willing to accept. While the otters in Yushu benefit from both Tibetan traditions and conservation actions, they still face a number of threats, including levee construction, water pollution, and growing traffic in the city. To better understand the impact of human activities on the otter population, Shanshui Conservation Center will continue its efforts in monitoring and research. Eventually, Center staff hope to inform actions such as habitat restoration, anti-poaching, and native fish conservation, based on their findings. CITATIONS • Dorje, O. T. (2011). Walking the path of environmental Buddhism through compassion and emptiness. Conservation Biology, 25(6), 1094-1097. doi:10.1111/j.1523-1739.2011.01765.x • Gomez, L., Leupen, B. T., Theng, M., Fernandez, K., & Savage, M. (2016). Illegal Otter Trade: An analysis of seizures in selected Asian countries (1980-2015). TRAFFIC. • Li, F., & Chan, B. P. L. (2017). Past and present: the status and distribution of otters (Carnivora: Lutrinae) in China. Oryx, 1-8. doi:10.1017/S0030605317000400 • Li, J., Wang, D., Yin, H., Zhaxi, D., Jiagong, Z., Schaller, G. B., … & Xiao, L. (2014). Role of Tibetan Buddhist monasteries in snow leopard conservation. Conservation Biology, 28(1), 87-94. doi:10.1111/cobi.12135 • Roos, A., Loy, A., de Silva, P., Hajkova, P. & Zemanová, B. 2015. Lutra lutra. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species 2015: e.T12419A21935287. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2015-2.RLTS.T12419A21935287.en. Downloaded on 07 March 2018. • Shao, Q., Liu, J., Huang, L., Fan, J., Xu, X., & Wang, J. (2013). Integrated assessment on the effectiveness of ecological conservation in Sanjiangyuan National Nature Reserve. Geographical Research, 32(9). doi:10.11821/dlyj201309007 Yifan (Flora) He is a recent Master’s graduate from the School of Environment and Sustainability, University of Michigan, soon to join Conservation International as a social science coordinator. In early 2018, she volunteered at the Shanshui Conservation Center, working on Eurasion otter monitoring, human-wildlife conflict resolution, and ecotourism development in the Sanjiangyuan region in Qinghai, China. FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
From the top of a rickety fire tower overlooking a palm oil estate in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, the damage caused by the devastating fires of 2015 still makes for a sobering sight 18 months on. What remains of pristine forest are the skeletons of trees, morbidly known as a “forest cemetery”, standing awkwardly on a thin covering of ferns and mosses. What was a charred war zone is finally showing signs of life. The fires, which contributed to the worst haze air-pollution crisis ever seen in Southeast Asia, devoured 2,000 hectares of carbon-rich peatland set aside for conservation by PT Agro Lestari Mandiri (PT AMNL), a palm oil company owned by Golden Agri Resources (GAR), the world’s second largest oil palm producer. The El Niño weather phenomenon had meant that the monsoon rains came late, and the fires - which observers said were started deliberately to clear land for agriculture - raged on for three months, the flammable peat soil burning deeply underground. This map, drafted by forest monitoring group Global Forest Watch, shows the height of the land burning activity in September 2015. Kalimantan is right at the centre of this map. According to the Indonesian government, the fires were responsible for US$16 billion in economic losses - almost as much as the palm oil industry’s contribution to Indonesia’s GDP in 2016 (US$17 billion). A study by Harvard and Columbia universities found that the haze, which was called a “crime against humanity” by the head of Indonesia’s meterology agency, killed 100,300 people prematurely in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, but this statistic has been refuted by the governments of these countries. There has been little accountability for the fires. Though there have been some arrests made and trials are ongoing, Indonesian police recently threw out a case to prosecute 15 companies linked to the haze, even though the law states that firms will be punished for failing to prevent fires in their concessions. Smallholder farmers tend to get the blame for the fires, although some burn the land to sell it on to big oil palm companies. The trade in burned land is known as terima abu, or receiving the ashes, which fertilise the soil. According to a recent study by Singapore’s NUS Business School, peat forest fires and the resulting haze pollution have been linked to the increase in the stock prices of palm oil firms; investors see the fires as an indication of a healthy, expanding palm oil sector. Burning is the quickest and cheapest way to clear land, and is a traditional method that has been used in Kalimantan and Sumatra for generations. Clearing land with fire costs around US$5 per hectare, while using machines and chemicals costs 40 times as much. The fires go out Maps provided by GAR show that there were no fires on PT AMNL’s estates in West Kalimantan in 2016, only a number of hotspots probably caused by self-combusting piles of compost. By comparison, fires peppered the estate in 2015. GAR says the lack of fires in its concession in 2016 is the result of a community engagement programme it launched a year ago to fight the culture of land burning. The company also admits that it got lucky - there was no El Niño in 2016. Following the fires of 2015, GAR must restore the lost forests in its concessions under order of the Indonesian government, which set up a taskforce, the Peatland Restoration Agency (BRG), dedicated to rehabilitating two million hectares of the country’s ravaged peatland at the start of last year. Doing so will cost the company roughly US$10,000 per hectare a year, says GAR. To reforest a patch of peatland will take 25 to 30 years to reach maturity (see box below on how to restore a forest), but it can never be restored to what it once was, says Kishokumar Jeyaraj of MEC, a consultancy hired to advise GAR. Prevention beats suppression At the heart of GAR’s strategy to fight fires is an effort to improve the livelihoods of villagers living in around its concessions. The rationale is that if people can live off the land productively, they are less likely to encroach on new land or burn it. GAR, which in the past has received criticism for how it manages relations with local people when opening up new land for plantations, has invested over the last year in infrastructure, equipment and training for villages to tackle the fires. The company has also taken a new approach to communicating the perils of burning. Instead of the traditional corporate posters showing militaristic firefighters in heavily branded uniforms, GAR launched a behaviour change campaign that focused on those most at risk from the fires. In 2015, women, children and the elderly were more than 300 per cent more likely than men to suffer permanent respiratory illness from the haze, so they became the centre of a campaign that ran through the company’s concessions. “Let’s prevent fires from making our lives miserable again,” says Ibu Sohriah in a video produced by Sinar Mas, the conglomerate that owns GAR. Cartoon posters also encouraged children to persuade their parents against starting fires and to avoid fire-risky habits. GAR subsidiary PT Smart ran a pilot community engagement programme called Desa Siaga Api (fire alert villages) in 17 villages in West Kalimantan and Jambi, Sumatra, last year as a first step. The programme is similar to one pioneered by pulp and paper firm APRIL in 2015 that other agroforestry players have since adopted as part of a Fire Free Alliance, and a platform launched by Sinar Mas sister company APP a short while later. GAR’s own programme seems to have had the desired effect. There were no fires in the participating villages, so each received IDR100 million (US$7,480) in social infrastructure aid. This has been followed with a more ambitious programme, called Desa Makmur Peduli Api (which roughly translates to prosperous fire free villages), that teaches villagers how to clear and cultivate land without burning it. Villagers are given the right seeds to grow palm trees, shown how to create compost, how to use fertilizer and how to cultivate food crops such as chilli, mustard and kale using sustainable farming techniques. Key to the success of the programme is giving the villages more control over their economic future. In one of the pilot villages named Lembah Hijau 2, the villagers have mapped out their ideal village, and calculated what it will cost to create it through a series of charts and drawings hung on the walls of the village hall. The plan is for the village to be self-sustaining within five years. An extensive fire prevention effort like this, though not cheap, costs a lot less than putting fires out. It is estimated that for every dollar an agribusiness firm spends on prevention, five can be saved on suppression. In previous years, villagers have been paid to help with the suppression effort. This strategy hasn’t always worked. Fires were started deliberately so that money could be made from putting them out. For peat’s sake BRG, the government’s peatland restoration agency, is now in the process of mapping out Indonesia’s burnt peatland, after which it will begin the tougher task of asking palm oil companies to cover the cost of restoring it. GAR is luckier than most agribusiness firms in that a relatively small proportion of its plantations grow on peat (roughly seven per cent, although the company has been giving Eco-Business a number of different figures) so it needs to spend less on the recovery effort. The company was the first in the palm oil industry to pledge to stop clearing peat forests to make way for plantations in 2011 following a hard-hitting campaign by environmental group Greenpeace. The campaign featured a man eating a KitKat made from the fingers of an orangutan, a species that has come to symbolise the destruction of Indonesian rainforests by Big Palm Oil. It wasn’t subtle, but it worked. The campaign paved the way for the now textbook High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach, a practical way for agribusiness firms to implement a zero-deforestation policy, which was developed developed by GAR, Greenpeace and The Forest Trust. When restoring burnt peatland forest, the first course of action is keep the soil wet. When consultancy MEC started its land restoration project for GAR, it first surveyed the area using drone cameras to identify the areas where water was flowing out of the peatland through canals, then blocked these outlets. Preventing the peat from degrading by managing the water table is the critical factor at this stage, and the consultancy says this has been done successfully so far in the 2,000 hectares of forest that GAR needs to restore. Planting takes place around three years on from the fires, once the ecosystem has stabilised and some ground vegetation has recovered. This is done during the dry season, so the seedlings can establish a foothold when the ground isn’t too soggy. Kishokumar Jeyaraj, a director at MEC, says that while observers may wish to see instant revegetation this is unrealistic. “The last thing you want is high plant mortality. It depresses people to see dying plants,” he explains. The species that have emerged naturally are trialed in a test area with new native species to see what thrives, then a mosaic of plant species gradually scaled across a wider area. In one hectare, around 10,000 seedlings are planted, which costs around US$6,000 for the seedlings alone. Including labour and transportation, to restore a single hectare “properly” may cost around US$10,000, explains Jeyaraj. It is a diversity of plants that invites animals back to a forest, typically birds first, the fish in riparian areas, and then small and later larger mammals. While patches of forest may support smaller animals, a mosaic landscape of connected forests is needed to support larger fauna, such as endangered orangutans, rhinos and elephants. GAR claims it will not cultivate any conservation land that burned in the 2015 fires, but not all of it will be returned to nature. “It’s not a strict conservation effort. The needs of the community need to be taken into account. You can’t exclude them,” says Jeyaraj. “Some marginal areas of land, bordering the villages, will be made available for crop planting without disturbing the core peat area.” But progress since could have been faster, particularly on the re-rewetting of peatlands, says Anissa Rahmawati, a campaigner for Greenpeace. She adds that cutting oil palm grown on burnt land out of its supply chain completely is no mean feat in a country as vast and complicated as Indonesia. GAR is under pressure to feed its mills to full capacity, and so oil palm that comes from illegal, burned land is hard to refuse, Rahmawati points out. Professor Herry Purnomo of the Center for International Forestry Research at Bogor Agricultural University has been studying the value chains of Indonesian palm oil. He says that all of the big six palm oil companies in Indonesia rely on illegal sources to feed their mills. Tracing the supply chain But tracing where the oil palm comes from is tricky, GAR says. Palm fruit bunches are brought to mills from a variety of sources - in trucks, on motorbikes or hand-delivered - and without knowing exactly where the crop comes from means there is no certainty that it was not grown on burnt land. GAR is not even able to trace palm oil fruit transported from plantations to its own mills, though it hopes to achieve 100 per cent ‘traceability’ by the middle of 2017. For mills it does not own, GAR hopes to achieve full transparency by 2020. GAR is now looking to introduce new technology to make traceability easier. Anita Neville, VP of corporate communications and sustainability relationship, says that the company is looking for a solution that can integrate data gathered from smallholders in a way that is accurate and not too costly. The challenge is finding a simple platform that works in areas of low connectivity and bandwidth like West Kalimantan, and then scaling it, she says. Most of the technology on offer has been developed in Western markets which require high internet access to work. However, industry watchers say that achieving full traceability should not be difficult. Ian Hilman, a campaigner for Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) Indonesia, is wary that palm oil companies are using non-transparency to hide rogue suppliers linked to deforestation or land conflict. While most of the big palm oil companies now talk a good zero-deforestation game, and claim their concessions are almost fire free, more pressure needs to be applied to ensure full transparency all the way along the supply chain, says Hilman. “Palm oil companies don’t want to increase their commitment [to land conservation], so they try to hide the weak links in their supply chain,” he says. Purnomo argues the same point. “There are a lot of people who depend on illegal oil palm,” he says. But satellite imagery, combined with maps of palm oil companies’ concessions drawn up by World Resources Institute, means that hiding is getting harder to do. Consumers and companies that buy palm oil-based products can see for themselves where deforestation is happening, and switch suppliers accordingly. Have the fires finally burned out? Now, as 2017’s dry season approaches, with a repeat of the El Niño phenomenon expected by July, the real test of palm oil companies’ fire prevention efforts begins. Will all the money and effort have paid off? The governor of South Sumatra, Alex Noerdin, said last week said that there will be no blazes in his province in 2017, but GAR’s head of sustainability, Agus Purnomo, says that some fires are inevitable. However, he predicts that none will be in areas near palm oil plantations. “They will come from other sources, and other causes,” he suggests. A traditional practice such as land burning cannot be stamped out in a single year, Purnomo says. “When the next generation becomes the breadwinner, and they’re more concerned about the consequences of fire, then we can start to move away from the practice.” “But right now, it’s tough. As long as poverty persists, so will fire.” Check out our accompanying photo essay: In pictures: Indonesia’s fire free villages Eco-Business visited Golden Agri Resources’ operations in West Kalimantan for this story, but also interviewed academics and non-governmental organisations via Skype. GAR provided accommodation during the plantation visit, and paid for Eco-Business’s travel to and from Indonesia.
Stockholm (AFP) - A massive iceberg drifting off Greenland has triggered fears of flooding if it breaks up, leading the authorities to evacuate a high-risk zone. The authorities have urged residents of the Innaarsuit island settlement with houses on a promontory to move away from the shore over fears that the 100-metre (over 300 feet) high iceberg, which was spotted on Thursday, could swamp the area. "We fear the iceberg could calve and send a flood towards the village," Lina Davidsen, a security chief at the Greenland police, told Danish news agency Ritzau on Friday. The settlement in northwestern Greenland has 169 inhabitants, but only those living closest to the iceberg have been evacuated, Ritzau reported. "The iceberg is still near the village and the police are now discussing what do to next," Kunuk Frediksen, a police chief in the Danish autonomous territory, told AFP. Susanne K. Eliassen, a member of the village council, told the local newspaper Sermitsiaq that it was not unusual for large icebergs to be seen close to Innaarsuit. "But this iceberg is the biggest we have seen... and there are cracks and holes that make us fear it can calve anytime," she said, adding that the village's power station and fuel tanks are close to the shore. "Nobody is staying unnecessarily close to the beach and all children have been told to stay in areas that are high up," Eliassen added. The incident comes weeks after scientists at New York University shot and released a video of a massive iceberg breaking free from a glacier in eastern Greenland in June. An expert warned that extreme iceberg events will become more frequent. "Iceberg production in Greenland has been increasing in the past 100 years as climate change has become stronger," William Colgan, senior researcher at the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland, told AFP. He said the rising number of icebergs are in turn "increasing the tsunami hazards" which occur when they break away from a glacier and trigger a tidal wave. Last year, four people died and 11 were injured after an earthquake sparked a tsunami off another island settlement called Nuugaatsiaq, sending several houses crashing into the sea.
Recently released satellite images show that illegal gold mining activities have now encroached upon an important protected area in the southern Peruvian Amazon: Tambopata National Reserve. A report released by the Monitoring of the Andean Amazon Project (MAAP) shows that the area between the Tambopata National Reserve and its buffer zone, the La Pampa area, has already lost over 2,500 hectares of forest between 2013 and 2015 largely due to illegal gold mining. The report follows a June 2015 statement by Amazon Conservation Association’s Mining News Watch on how illegal mining has led to significant deforestation in the buffer region. To assess the extent of deforestation, MAAP analyzes satellite images with a specialized software program called CLASLite which was developed by the Carnegie Institute for Science. By taking satellite images of the same location at different times, researchers can compare visible changes and accurately calculate deforestation levels remotely. Mining operations have now entered the reserve itself. Images taken in September 2015 and November 2015 of an area along the northern border of the reserve show initial illicit mining activity taking place in the reserve between September and November 2015. According to the report, deforestation has also recently been recorded along the Malinowski River, which forms part of the reserve’s northern boundary. La Pampa, which is part of the reserve’s buffer zone, is an area north of the region where the Malinowski River forms Tambopata’s boundary and is known to be the site of increasing illegal mining activity. Consequently, the report asserts, the majority of deforestation caused by these illegal activities has also occurred in the protected La Pampa buffer zone. Despite a drop in gold prices over the past few years, in southern Peru, like in other South American countries, gold mining has been increasing to keep up with a yet-lofty global demand. The cost of extracting this Aurelian element, however, is borne largely by the forests that contain gold reserves, the wildlife inhabiting these ecosystems and the communities that live or work nearby. Both Tambopata and La Pampa are located in Peru’s Madre de Dios department, which alone is said to harbor more than 30,000 active artisanal or small-scale miners. According to a MAAP report released in March 2015, 1,700 hectares of gold mining-related deforestation occurred in the La Pampa region between 2013 and 2015. Then, in May, they found more evidence showing that a further 850 hectares of forest had been wiped out because of gold mining in the Upper Malinowski River region, a little west of La Pampa. Satellite images of Madre de Dios show mounds of gravel that indicate areas where soil has been washed clean for gold. In total, from 2000 to 2012, mining in the region increased by 400 percent. The area comprising the Tambopata National Reserve is home to several endangered species including the harpy eagle (Harpia harpyja), the jaguar (Panthera onca), the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla), and the lowland tapir (Tapirus terrestris). The Madre de Dios department is part of southeast Peru’s crucial Endemic Bird Area while Tambopata itself is an Important Bird Area as categorized by Birdlife International. Several species found in this region are endemic and many rely on riverine forest or floodplains. Birds like the white-lined antbird (Percnostola lophotes) and the rufous-fronted antthrush (Formicarius rufifrons) are classified as Near Threatened by the IUCN. As illegal mining moves from fringe areas into protected habitats like Tambopata, such threatened species are at further risk of losing their homes. The white-lined antbird is particularly threatened by habitat loss, with experts predicting deforestation will drive a 25 to 30 pecent decline in the species over the next three generations. Mercury: downstream and up the food chain It’s not just birds that are threatened by the mining influx. Gold mining contributes to habitat loss and damages biodiversity on a much more intense level. Water quality studies indicate these mining operations are also causing extremely dangerous mercury pollution. For instance, mercury is often used in these small-scale gold mining operations because it forms an amalgam with the gold ore and makes it easier to extract from the surrounding sediment. But after it’s served its purpose, mercury frequently escapes into the air and water. Despite its usefulness in extracting gold, mercury is a heavy metal and a deadly neurotoxin, and is extremely dangerous to both people and the environment. Even in low concentrations, mercury has been known to cause birth defects, and heavier doses have been linked to neurological disorders like Minamata disease and even death. Through a process called biomagnification, mercury that is released into water can be passed in higher concentrations to each successive organism up the aquatic food chain. According to a 2013 study published in the Journal of Environmental Protection, several species of fish surveyed in the Tambopata region had higher methylmercury levels than what the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prescribes as levels safe enough for human consumption; some samples showed readings that were twice the prescribed limit. In total, calculations published in 2015 show that 40.5 metric tons of mercury enters the Madre de Dios River every year, meaning small-scale artisanal mining in just that one body of water is responsible for 5.6 percent of the world’s mercury pollution. The United Nation’s Environment Program’s Global Mercury Assessment of 2013 points to artisanal and small-scale gold mining as the world’s second largest contributor to mercury pollution. Peru’s government has struggled to control such operations, which are often family-run small businesses without government permits, but a formalization process was recently created to allow people to apply for legal mining permits. Mining and murder Peru has been experiencing frequent incidents of violence, particularly against environmentalists and activists. A 2014 report by Global Witness identifies Peru as the fourth most dangerous country in the world for environmental activists with 57 environmental and land activists, including indigenous leaders, having been murdered in Peru in just 12 years. This lack of safety and security in Madre de Dios has now also affected tourism in the region. In November 2015, $48 million worth of illegal timber was seized in a shipment bound for the United States from Peru in what was the largest shipment of illegal timber to ever be seized in Peru. Days after the seizure, the government’s state forest agency office was attacked with a Molotov bomb. Timber, often sourced illegally from protected areas and/or indigenous reserves, is sometimes transported on boats over the Tambopata River. Also in November, the 59-year-old president of a local reforestation association in La Pampa, Alfredo Vracko, was murdered in his home by masked gunmen. Vracko’s son believes that the murder, which coincides with the expansion of illegal gold mining into the Tambopata National Reserve, was carried out by illegal miners who had invaded his father’s reforestation concession earlier. Had Alfredo Vracko not filed an official report with the supervising government agency about the illegal miners on his land, they would have cancelled his concession on the grounds that these miners were operating within its limits. However, by reporting the mining, he inadvertently launched an official investigation into it that may have put his own life in danger. Vracko’s murder came almost exactly a year after another member of the reforestation association, Sixto Fernandez, was killed under similar circumstances. Vracko’s assassination follows a warning from the Forest Peoples Programme that another environmentalist, Washington Bolivar, has received death threats for his activism and stand against a plan to convert 5,000 hectares of rainforest to an industrial oil palm plantation. Furthermore, on December 28, 34-year-old Rojas Gonzales – the mayor of the town of Yagen – was shot five times and killed as he was walking home. Gonzales had been receiving death threats for years because of his vocal opposition of a hydroelectric dam project in Peru’s Cajamarca region. Days after Alfredo Vracko was murdered in La Pampa, a network of miners in the Madre de Dios region launched a strike against the Peruvian government’s plan to crack down on illegal mining and logging operations by controlling and supervising the sale of chemicals that can be used in such operations and by implementing quotas for gasoline. Although they called off the strike early in December, the protests against setting limits on gasoline supplies – which would be a setback for many mining operations that use gasoline to run their machinery – received widespread support. The protests were led by the department’s governor Luis Otsuka who is a former head of the illegal miners’ union and led protests against the Peruvian government in 2012. A hopeful future? Despite the violence and the increasing threat to pristine forests from mining, there may be a glimmer of hope in the Peruvian government’s determined stand against illegal miners and loggers. The authors of the MAAP report note that in the period their findings were being reviewed, “a major operation against illegal mining activities was carried out by the Peruvian government” in the area they studied. In fact, in 2015 itself, more than 100 operations were carried out against illegal mining all across Peru by specialized environmental prosecutors. In December alone, Peruvian National Police and Air Force units destroyed 86 illegal mining camps in the La Pampa region by removing machinery and equipment (such as hoses, engines, bins, and pipes) used for mining activities near the Tambopata reserve. It remains to be seen how Peru’s efforts to quash illegal gold mining in protected areas like Tambopata will play out in 2016. But the MAAP team will continue to be an eye in the sky, tracking human activity in the area and its impacts on the land.
BOGOTA, Colombia – “I ordered Minister Murillo to return to Guaviare tomorrow with Mindefensa (Ministry of Defense) and Prosecutor’s Office to control deforestation outbreaks,” President Juan Manuel Santos wrote on his Twitter account upon his return from Chiribiquete National Park, where he had just made a crucial announcement for the future of the sanctuary located in the heart of the Colombian Amazon. The announcement came in late February 2018. In an improvised press conference on top of shrub-covered rocks with an impressive range of rocky mountains in the background bordered by a precipice full of trees, Santos said that the studies for the 1.5 million hectare expansion of the Chiribiquete are ready. He said he hopes to turn this gem of nature, which still remains intact, into one of the most important protected areas in the world with a total area of ​​4.3 million hectares. But the news lost relevance in front of the panorama that could be seen during the trip from San José del Guaviare to El Chiribiquete. From the helicopter, the president and his delegation: Luis Gilberto Murillo, the Minister of Environment, Julia Miranda, the director of Natural Parks, businessman Alejandro Santo Domingo, and the Duke of Wellington accompanied by his wife, observed the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. Huge patches without trees, and in most cases converted into empty pastures in the middle of a forest carpet, dominated the landscape. But the most impressive thing was the dense smoke of at least 40 fires, signaling that the tragedy was happening in real-time. While the president announced the expansion of Chiribiquete, a monster advanced devouring the jungles around it. In this video, one can see what is currently happening in Tierra Alta, in the municipality of El Retorno, near San José del Guaviare, the capital of the department. This area is located north of the Chiribiquete National Park. The forest of Guaviare is burning. Hundreds of fires are devouring that part of the Colombian Amazon by the action of people who light the fire to ‘clean’ the land of trees and turn them into pastures. Many times, as Environment Minister Luis Gilberto Murillo says, with the sole purpose of hoarding the land and waiting for its value to appreciate. San José del Guaviare is located north of the Chiribiquete and is the closest city to the protected area. The capital of Guaviare, together with nearby municipalities such as Calamar and Miraflores, is included among the sites with an early deforestation warning which were issued each quarter of 2017 by the Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies (also known by its acronym in Spanish, IDEAM). In 2016, San José del Guaviare was the sixth municipality most deforested with 11,456 of the 178,597 hectares of primary forest that disappeared in the country. According to Omar Franco, director of IDEAM, one of the main causes of deforestation in that area is the construction of the highway between Calamar and Miraflores. “Although it is incipient, it can become a new front of expansion of the agricultural frontier,” Franco said. However, the illegal hoarding of large areas has become the true engine of the accelerated deforestation. This was acknowledged by Minister Murillo himself when asked about the issue during the Chiribiquete event before President Santos ordered him to return to address the issue via Twitter. “We are working with the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Defense because deforestation is taking place due to the illegal appropriation of land” Murillo said. “People cut the forest and wait for the land’s value to appreciate.” Rodrigo Botero, director of the Foundation for the Sustainable Development of the Amazon – who provided technical advice for the Chiribiquete expansion studies –holds the same view. “There is an uncontrolled land grabbing phenomenon that is almost purely speculative because they do not even use the land. Roads, coca, livestock, cocoa and palm crops are also causing a great impact in that area.” However, Botero says that the expansion of the Chiribiquete is a step forward in protecting ecosystems throughout the country. “In the newly expanded area, the Chiribiquete will be connected to the La Macarena Park and the Sumapaz, that is, we will achieve the integration of the Amazon region with the Andes. It is like having a corridor between the south of Bogotá and the heart of the Amazon,” he said. The news of the expansion was accompanied by the announcement of an investment of $500 million dollars for conservation, restoration and environmental recovery of the country from the environmental compensation scheme paid by companies. In addition to the resources and expansions, which undoubtedly are important, the government must be able to ensure the governability of the territories. Without that, several experts agree, Chiribiquete will be a protected paradise surrounded by cleared land. Cover photo courtesy of Semana Sostenible. This story was reported by Mongabay’s Latin America (Latam) team and was first published in Spanish on our Latam site on February 22, 2018.
Kibera, Kenya - The long rainy season in Kenya has begun and the country's meteorological department has told Nairobi residents to brace for heavy rains and floods this week. The country has gone through one of the driest periods in recent history, causing massive crop failure in most areas, consequently leaving nearly 3.4 million Kenyans at risk of starvation and an estimated 500,000 people without access to water. While the arrival of the eagerly awaited rainfall is considered a blessing and brings great relief to agricultural areas, the rains also claim lives and cause destruction in other parts of the country. In Nairobi, the rainy season exposes some of the capital's mediocre infrastructure. Nairobi's already bad traffic gets worse as the poorly drained roads flood. The privately run buses, "matatus", raise their rates. Power supply becomes intermittent. In Kibera - the biggest informal settlement in Kenya, a sea of rusted tin roofs, earthen walls and dark narrow paths along the eastern bank of the Ngong River, the rain is responsible for leaving a mark of destruction and losses to the estimated 500,000 - one million people who live in this one square mile settlement. This is the time of the year when schools register minimal attendance because of the impassable roads, flooded alleys and seasonal streams flowing in all corners of the slum. The absence of solid waste management systems means that the heavy rains cause rubbish to be washed from dumpsites to across streets and through residents' backyards. The river cutting along the settlement's western boundary washes away houses, the water leaks through the corrugated rooftops, and disease spreads quickly. While the entire settlement struggles to cope, women and children living in Kibera bear the worst of the rain's aftermath.
At the edge of an imperiled Alaska town, Dennis Davis sent a drone over a patchwork of ice covering the Chukchi Sea. “Some people think it’s a toy, but a lot of people know that it’s an actual tool,” he said of the $5,000, microwave-sized machine with a camera mounted to a carbon fiber frame. As snowmachines zoomed past, Davis, 39, a resident and former police officer, looked at the pictures that were beamed back. Davis doesn’t use the drone to spot prey, which he believes would give him an unfair advantage. Instead, he uses it to analyze ice conditions – blue ice is considered stronger than white ice. Because the climate, and ice formation, is ever more variable, Davis hoped the drone would help “set a course for everybody” when they went out seal-hunting in the springtime. With a population of about 600 on a barrier island at the state’s extreme western tip, Shishmaref’s days are numbered. Rapid erosion is eating away at its beaches, and for years the community has appealed for federal funds to move to a new location. But in the meantime, residents still need to eat and pay bills. So hunters like Davis, contending with unstable environmental conditions, are having to find new ways to survive. Climatic shifts are ever more apparent to Alaskans who depend on the land and sea for nourishment, from indigenous subsistence hunters to weekend warriors. Moose are extending their range. But they also face a looming threat from ticks encroaching on warming northern latitudes. The timing of migrations among everything from bowhead whales to caribou are shifting, becoming less dependable. More ominously, unusual mortality events among birds and marine mammals are becoming more common in the region. Last year, 39 dead walruses washed ashore in the Bering Strait region. Four tested positive for biotoxins from algae blooms, a new presence in Arctic waters. Such issues come into sharp focus in Shishmaref, which embodies the extreme dichotomies in rural Alaska. It lacks basic infrastructure, such as plumbing for sewage and potable water, and is reachable only by small planes flown out of nearby hub communities. But there’s also an abundance of natural resources and the traditional knowledge of how to harvest them. Balmier weather has meant ice doesn’t get as thick and will disappear much faster in the spring. The conditions create a problem for hunting ice seals, walruses and bearded seals, which everyone in Shishmaref calls by their Inupiaq name, oogruk. “Going oogruk hunting or walrus hunting, you can go, like, 30, 40, 50 miles without seeing something,” Davis said of the last few years. It isn’t that there are fewer animals, but as they follow retreating sea ice, they are distributed further from the town – prompting hunters to travel greater distances searching for them. Last year Davis went almost all the way to Kotzebue, about a hundred miles away, looking for oogruk. On the way back, the weather took an unexpected turn, nearly costing the hunting party all their equipment when his boat became stuck in the ice and had to be abandoned. “The way we hunt oogruk or seal hasn’t changed. The conditions have,” said Percy Nayokpuk, 65, who runs a store in town and is Davis’s father-in-law. This season has seen the latest freeze-up of the ocean he can remember. Climate change is having other profound impacts. Traditionally, people in Shishmaref relied more heavily on marine mammals for food. In the last few decades, residents say more caribou are venturing closer to town, increasing the local harvest. Outside homes all around town, ruby-red haunches cure in the sun and tangled piles of antlers rest on roofs. The shifting distribution could be the result of a changing food supply on the tundra or fluctuations in herd size. But with fewer opportunities to hunt marine mammals, caribou is becoming a more dependable option. It’s a similar story with musk oxen, shaggy prehistoric goats that were wiped out of Alaska in the 1800s, reintroduced to the mainland just 50 years ago, and are now steadily working their way back into people’s diets. For some hunters, terrestrial animals like these are a relatively new opportunity to reliably put food away. Like most people in Shishmaref and indigenous communities across Alaska, hunting is no idle pursuit for Davis. Back at his cluttered three-bedroom home home on a chilly January evening, he fried up a house special: musk ox burgers. “I compare musk ox to wagyu beef, because it’s so marbled,” Davis said. All seven of his kids still live at home. By the time everyone is finished with dinner, eight pounds of musk ox meat is gone. Buying this much frozen ground beef at the store would have cost up to $70. That per-meal cost is out of reach for many in Alaska’s rural communities, where jobs and cash are scarce and everything costs several times as much as it would at a supermarket in the lower 48 – even water. A gallon is $11 at the store. Shishmaref is running out of time. Buildings are perched perilously close to the ocean’s edge. Millions of dollars have been spent on a seawall, but that’s a short-term solution, expected to fail in the coming years. More than a dozen buildings have been moved to the other side of town to keep from being swallowed by the sea. In 2016, residents voted 94 to 78 to relocate the village to a new site, but the federal dollars and coordination to handle the move are outstanding. Prospects for oogruk hunters seem unlikely to improve. A few weeks after Davis sent out his drone, scientists sounded the alarm about “crazy” temperature rises in the Arctic. In Shishmaref and the surrounding areas along western Alaska’s rugged coastline, stormy warm weather caused the ice to break apart and blow out to sea. For many in the region, it was the first time they heard an odd sound for February, when the solemnly silent sea ice approaches its thickest extent. It was the sound of breakers crashing on the shore.
Jakarta, Indonesia (AP) — Indonesia has identified the suspected location of an overcrowded ferry that sank last week in a deep volcanic crater lake but will need international help to recover the wreck, the chief of the national search and rescue agency said Monday. The ferry had some 200 people on board — about five times its capacity — but only 18, including the boat’s captain, survived the sinking in rough weather June 17 on Lake Toba. Few bodies have been recovered and officials have said many of the dead are likely trapped inside the vessel. The search agency chief, Muhammad Syaugi, said in a television interview that an object that was located at a depth of 490 meters was about 20 meters long and 5 meters wide, consistent with the boat’s dimensions. Sonar equipment from Indonesia’s navy was deployed on Friday. Divers could reach depths of only 50 meters in the lake’s cold and dark waters. Anguished relatives have criticized the search effort, but Syaugi defended it, saying there had been an “all out” effort. “We will do our best to salvage this wreck,” he said. “Because we do not have robots, we are trying to find from other countries, but most of them have tools to lift a vessel from just 100 meters depth and the wreck must be cut first.” “For us, the most important thing is to get as many victims as possible,” Syaugi said. North Sumatra police chief Paulus Waterpau told Indonesian TV that the boat’s captain and three regional transport officials were arrested on suspicion of negligence that led to the sinking. Ferry tragedies are common in Indonesia, an archipelago of more than 17,000 islands, with weak enforcement of safety regulations often to blame. Lake Toba, formed out of an ancient super volcano, is a popular sightseeing destination on the island of Sumatra and among the destinations that Indonesia’s government is promoting as a magnet for domestic and foreign tourists.
The photos and video emerging from the Indonesian island of Sumatra right now are absolutely terrifying. Thankfully, no one has been hurt, but the smoke and ash bubbling from Mount Sinabung after an eruption earlier today is like watching some kind of mythical monster slowing taking over the sky. The volcano was dormant for over 400 years before awaking from its slumber in 2010 and killing two people. It killed another 16 people in 2014 and seven people lost their lives to the volcano in 2016. No one has been reported dead or injured from today’s eruption. According to Discover magazine, today’s eruption of Mount Sinabung was probably its biggest blast yet—at least vertically. But thankfully, it’s unlikely that we’ll see any impact on the climate from this explosion. Even with the relative size of the eruption, there is no chance this causes any climate impact. The initial estimates of sulfur released are too low to cause much atmosphere effects and the height of the plume wasn’t tall enough to reach the stratosphere. Current estimates of the ash plume are between 5-7 kilometers, so between 16,000-20,000 feet (down from the initial guesses of over 50,000 feet). We even had GIFs of what the volcano looks like from space. As Reuters reports, flight advisories have been issued for as far south as Darwin in the northern tip of Australia. The ash is covering everything in sight, again creating surreal images that seem more appropriate for mythical stories than the real world. Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesperson for Indonesia’s Disaster Agency, has been tweeting images from the island, including this handful of small rocks that came raining down and crops covered in volcanic dust, like the plants above. If you’re in the area, authorities have advised that people should stay at least 4 miles away from the volcano. Keep you and yours safe out there, friends. The power of a volcano is obviously no joke.
Albertina Nakale WINDHOEK - The Khomas Regional Governor Laura McLeod-Katjirua says the encroaching informal settlements around Daan Viljoen Game Park have become a serious cause for concern, since it has resulted in an increase in wildlife crimes committed within those protected areas. A number of threats to the environment have been identified, which include poaching, especially in Daan Viljoen Game Park and the outlying areas of Khomas in general. “Illegal hunting is a crime that is very prevalent in Khomas Region, especially at unsuspecting spots like resettlement farm Versailles No. 67. We are concerned, and the ministry [of environment] has and will continue to conduct several patrols on government farms, and along the corridors, and mount roadblocks in conjunction with other law-enforcement agencies in the Khomas Region,” she said. The governor revealed that a number of wildlife species were illegally hunted across Khomas during the 2017/18 period. She made the revelations during her State of the Region Address last week at the Khomas Regional Council. The 4,000-hectare Daan Viljoen Game Park supports a healthy population of game typical of the Namibian highlands, including giraffe, eland, kudu, oryx, mountain zebra, baboon, warthog, jackal and blue wildebeest. With over 200 species of birds, Daan Viljoen is particularly popular for birding enthusiasts. The Ministry of Environment and Tourism is the sole custodian of Daan Viljoen Game Park. The park plays an important role in housing many wildlife species and serves as a tourist attraction and environmental education facility in the region. “At this point, I would like to warn present and prospective perpetrators of this and similar crimes, to desist from carrying out such selfish and misguided acts that are tantamount to undermining our economy,” she warned without shedding light on what actions would be taken against illegal occupiers. Fines and penalties for illegal hunting and other related wildlife offences or crimes were amended through amendments to the Nature Conservation Ordinance, 1975 (Act No. 4 of 1975) to make them stiffer for would-be offenders. The Nature Conservation Amendment Act, 2017 (Act No. 3 of 2017) was promulgated in June 2017. A couple of years ago the City of Windhoek took the first legal steps to have a group of illegal occupants evicted from land which the city owns close to Daan Viljoen Game Park. However, McLeod-Katjirua said as far as land matters are concerned, the Khomas Regional Council, in conjunction with the Ministry of Land Reform during the period under review, convened a consultative meeting with stakeholders in the region to seek views and opinions on the land reform programme and other land-related matters in preparation for the hosting of the second National Land Conference. “I am reliably informed that there is another round of consultations to be held soon this year in preparation for the second National Land Conference to be hosted in October 2018. I urge all the stakeholders in the region to honour that invitation when the times arise,” she said. The governor thanked the environment ministry for its continued efforts to register butcheries, game dealers, professional hunters and hunting farms across the region. She says all these activities facilitate economic development of the rural parts of Khomas. She further noted that the Ministry of Environment and Tourism provided game meat to the !Khomain community during their traditional festivities and also donated game meat to centres for needy and vulnerable members of society, such as Mother’s Voice, Mount Sinai, Foundation Care, Moria Grace, Katutura Old Age Home, Tuhafeni Pre-Primary, Planet Hope Centre and Children Life Change Centre. With regard to human-wildlife conflict, she said the ministry has effectively responded to numerous reported incidents in Khomas. These incidents include of baboons, snakes and kudu with rabies straying into the suburbs of the City of Windhoek. “Inspections were carried out on farms around Khomas Region. These inspections are important because they provide basic data needed to grant wildlife utilisation permits, such as for hunting for selling purposes or capturing and movement of live game from one farm to another,” she noted.
Ten miles from Louisiana’s receding shore, on an island that was on the verge of sinking away, new land is growing at a rate of 200 feet per day. A slurry of sand blasts from a 30-inch-wide pipe with the force of a firehose. In foaming sheets, it spreads across the beach of Whiskey Island, making it thicker and wider by the minute. Backhoes and bulldozers finish the job, sculpting the sand into something resembling the island’s younger self, before storms, oil spills and erosion took a heavy toll. The project’s manager, John Huit, suppresses a prideful grin as he watches a landscape quite literally taking shape before his eyes. “Where we’re standing was nothing but water - 12 feet deep - when we started this,” he said, standing in rubber boots next to the gushing pipe. The $118 million restoration of Whiskey Island on the edge of Terrebonne Bay is one of the world’s biggest land building projects. More than 15.8 million cubic yards of sand - enough to fill the Superdome three times - has been dredged and spread across the island, creating nearly 2,000 acres of new beach and marsh. More sand was moved than the state’s previous record, the Caminada Headland restoration, which spread 8.8 million cubic yards across 13 miles of coast, from Port Fourchon to Elmer’s Island. Whiskey Island’s restoration, which is set to wrap up in early fall, amounts to only a fraction of the money and sand Louisiana is pouring into the rescue of its chain of barrier islands. And for good reason. Growing smaller and fewer in number by the year, the more than two dozen barrier islands are Louisiana’s “first line of defense against hurricanes and storm surges,” Gov. John Bel Edwards said. “Louisiana’s barrier islands are some of the most important features of our coastal landscape - a true source of protection for our communities,” he said. The slim, sandy islands act as speed bumps, absorbing wind and wave power that would otherwise travel unimpeded through fragile wetlands and into towns and cities, including metro New Orleans. Slide divider right and left to see islands before and after restoration. Behind barrier islands, watery worlds meet and blend into something more complex. The sea, calmed by protected bays, mixes with river water rich in sediment and nutrients, giving rise to a third kind of ecosystem - one that teems with fish, shrimp and oysters. Suspended river sediment is slowed long enough to sink, eventually stacking into new land or building back what erosion had taken away. Barrier islands themselves are much less dynamic, except during nesting season. The islands draw raucous crowds of gulls and terns every spring. Some bird species nest nowhere else, including the state’s icon, the brown pelican. Seven barrier islands host 90 percent of the state’s population of nesting pelicans. “Some of these islands have a tiny footprint of land,” said Erik Johnson, Audubon Louisiana’s director of bird conservation. “They might seem to have very little value, but from a bird perspective they’re irreplaceable.” Over the past 20 years, nearly $817 million has been spent restoring Louisiana’s barrier islands, bulking up 75 miles of beach and back-island marsh, according to a recent assessment by the state Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority (CPRA). The state plans to invest another $1.5 billion over the next 50 years as part of the Coastal Master Plan, an ambitious restoration and storm protection initiative estimated to cost $50 billion. Despite the barrier islands’ importance, and the vast sums of public money going into their repair and upkeep, they are out of sight, out of mind for most Louisianans. That’s not the case in many coastal states, where barrier islands are prime real estate dominated by beach homes, hotels and crowded beaches. Louisiana’s islands are remote, low-lying and often bare. Only Grand Isle, population: 1,400, has a year-round human presence. “Not many people think about them, but the barrier islands are critical for our coast,” said Windell Curole, manager of the South Lafourche Levee District. “Restoring them offers us a better chance of survival.” On a warm August night in 1856, a raging hurricane made a direct hit on Isle Derniere, a 24-mile-long barrier island that guarded Terrebonne Parish’s soft, marshy middle. French for “last island,” Isle Derniere boasted a sprawling resort popular with New Orleans’ wealthiest families. Gale winds and towering waves broke the island in two and tore away the hotel, casinos, summer homes and all the island’s trees. “The wind blew a perfect hurricane; every building upon the island giving way, one after another, until nothing remained...,” an eyewitness told The Daily Picayune on Aug. 14, 1856. “The sea waved over the whole island. Those who were fortunate to find some object to cling to were seen floating in all directions.” More than 200 people drowned or were crushed by wreckage. The island, cut through, began to splinter further, eventually giving shape to Whiskey and three other islands - East, Trinity and Raccoon. Had Derniere not been in the hurricane’s path, the destruction would have been far worse on the mainland, where several fishing communities dotted the bayous northward to Houma. The hurricane made abundantly clear that barrier islands were a treacherous place to live, but it wasn’t understood for another century the protective role they play. By then, nearly all of the state’s barrier islands were in danger of slipping away. Louisiana State University oceanographer Joe Suhayda sounded the alarm in the early 1990s. With the help of computer scientist Vibhas Aravamuthan, Suhayda produced models that altered or erased the barrier islands under several storm scenarios. Even small changes to the island’s shapes and heights had big implications, they found. Shrink an island a bit and hypothetical storms strike the mainland harder, faster and with taller waves. A Category 3 hurricane thrown at the more robust Louisiana coastline of 1930 would have left Houma high and dry, according to their model. The same hurricane let loose in 2020, when much of the barrier chain would have eroded away, put the city under three feet of water. Remove Whiskey and its neighbors, and 1992′s Hurricane Andrew swamps Cocodrie with an extra foot of water, the modeling showed. But bulk the islands up a bit, giving them a touch more height and width, and Andrew’s flooding would have been cut by as much as five feet. “Thinking about these islands as though they were gone - that put a lot of emphasis on them and the projects to save them,” Suhayda, now retired, said in April. Just as the islands’ importance was becoming clear, so was their rate of loss. In 1992, the U.S. Geological Survey, undertaking the first comprehensive assessment of Louisiana’s barrier islands, estimated that the islands had decreased in area by an average of 40 percent over the past century. “A few islands are expected to disappear within the next three decades,” the USGS study warned. Disappear they did. Grand Gosier and Curlew - both part of the Chandeleur Islands on the state’s east edge - were a combined 600 acres in 1996. Less than a decade later, they’d been dwindled to just 75 acres. After Hurricane Katrina, they were gone. In 2005, the coast-wide scope of loss became clear: since the 1880s, nearly 24,000 acres - about 76 percent of the total area of barrier islands - had disappeared, according to the CPRA. That averages out to 200 acres per year. Change is a constant for barrier islands. They begin life not as islands but as the outer edges of river deltas, dynamic landscapes that naturally shift and retreat and build anew. Louisiana’s barrier islands took shape some 6,000 years ago as the Mississippi River altered course and abandoned parts of its much wider delta. The delta’s sandy edges turned into islands as the marshes behind them eroded, becoming what are today Terrebonne and Barataria bays on the delta’s west side and Breton and Chandeleur sounds to the east. The Gulf of Mexico has never been gentle with barrier islands. Waves and wind are constantly scraping at their sides, and storms occasionally break them into bits. But what the gulf took away the river always restored. Silt and sand suspended in freshwater flowed into the gulf and eventually washed up on island’s shores. That changed after humans began to alter the Mississippi, hardening its banks and damming up the sediment-rich rivers that flowed into it. What sediment remained was channeled by levees to flow straight off the continental shelf at the river’s mouth. Meanwhile, climate change is fueling stronger and more frequent hurricanes that pummel the islands. Rising global temperatures have also contributed to the slow upward creep of sea levels - a problem expected to worsen in decades to come. Subsidence, the gradual sinking of soft delta land, is also at play. Grand Isle, Whiskey and other large barrier islands are dropping by a half inch each year, according to the CPRA. Then there’s the oil industry, which has cut some barrier islands into pieces in the search for untapped reserves. Once torn apart, the islands tend to erode faster. Oil companies have tried quick fixes to shore up islands that support wells and pipelines, but their preferred solution - rock embankments - has only sped up erosion, said Darin Lee, a coastal resource scientist who manages CPRA’s barrier island projects. Wave energy bounces off the rock and scours out sand under the water line, making the bank steeper. “Eventually the rocks collapse, and they sit there, preventing recovery because no new sand can get back to the island,” Lee said. Oil spills also take a toll. The BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010 saturated several barrier islands. Cat Island on the edge of Barataria Bay had been one of Louisiana’s four largest nesting sites, hosting dense concentrations of pelicans and other birds. The island’s soil soaked up BP oil like a sponge, killing the roots of grasses and mangrove trees. As the plants died, the soil more easily washed away. Before the disaster, Cat Island was about six acres. Two years later, less than one lifeless acre remained. Now the island is a 10-foot-wide strip of sand that will likely wash away with the next big storm. The effort to save the barrier islands began not with big-budget projects by the federal government or state but by Terrebonne Parish. “Look at us on a map - Terrebonne’s sticking way out there,” said Mart Black, the parish’s coastal restoration director. “We’re more vulnerable. When there’s a storm, we get hit before the others.” In the 1980s, the parish pushed for bigger and better structural protections, eventually getting federal support for Morganza to the Gulf, a network of levees, locks and floodgates under construction across nearly 100 miles of Terrebonne and Lafourche Parish. Terrebonne’s leaders also lobbied for help rebuilding their crumbling barrier islands but got little traction with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the federal agency that issues permits for big coastal projects. “The Army Corps wanted to study it and study it,” Black said. “We said ‘no, no, we need something now.’” Terrebonne Parish engineer Robert Jones dove in, establishing Louisiana’s first barrier restoration project in March 1985. It was a low-budget, low-tech affair using dredged near-shore sediment to build protective dikes along the edges of East Island. Atop the island, Jones strung cheap plastic mesh from posts to catch drifting sand. He hired teenagers to plant the new dunes with beach grass. They dragged sticks to make furrows and plopped in seeds from a Coke bottle. The project rebuilt more than 3,000 feet of 8-foot-high dune, all for about $750,000. The island withstood three hurricanes during its first year and a pounding from Hurricane Gilbert in 1989. “Terrebonne was the first to show it could be done,” Lee said. “The parish gave us our first big push.” The project inspired similar local efforts and served as a blueprint for some of the state’s earliest coastal restoration efforts. But Jones, who died in 2002, knew his shoestring approach needed to be scaled up. “If the U.S. was losing this kind of territory to a foreign aggressor, there’d be no expense spared,” Jones told The Times-Picayune in 1992. But by the late ’90s, CWPPRA was pouring millions of dollars into barrier island build-ups. Then came the multiple settlements from BP and its drilling partners over the Deepwater Horizon disaster. The billions of dollars in those settlements gave a huge boost to Louisiana’s coastal restoration efforts, paving the way for epic projects like the ones on Whiskey and Caminada. Before the 2010 disaster, barrier island projects averaged less than 3.3 million cubic yards. After 2010, projects had jumped to 5.2 million cubic yards on average, according to coastal engineering consultant Steve Dartez. More than 20 state-managed barrier island restoration projects have been undertaken over the past two decades, re-creating 9,300 acres of sandy, sea-facing beach and back-island marsh on the Louisiana coast. The projects have gotten a lot bigger than in Jones’ day. “But we’re using the same principles,” Lee said. First step: find a sand source. Early restoration projects would use the dredge-and-barge method, which can be time consuming and expensive, depending on the distance between the island and the sand source. Sand is an abundant material but finding the right type in vast quantities isn’t easy. In 2012, the CPRA turned to the Mississippi for the first time. Sand was dredged from the river and sent through a pipeline from Buras to Scofield Island, a fast-dissolving barrier island near the river’s mouth. The 22-mile-long pipeline had to duck under and jump over several hurdles, including two hurricane levees, two highways and a busy shipping canal. A headache for engineers and builders, the project’s total cost was nearly $57 million for 510 acres of restored beach and dune. The restoration of neighboring Pelican Island was, in contrast, accomplished with sand dredged from the Gulf. It ended up costing about $10 million less than Scofield and restored 76 more acres. Offshore sand is now the primary source of material for rebuilding barrier islands, but it, too, has challenges. The first one is locating good Gulf sand under all that Mississippi mud. “Finding sand for our uses takes a lot of searching,” Lee said. The CPRA reviews geologic data collected over the past century to find large sand deposits under heaps of mucky river sediment. They zero in on their quarry with a combination of sonar readings and sediment sampling. The richest sand sources are ancient barrier islands - ones that sank under the waves after the river retreated or changed course. Ship Shoal, the main sand supplier for the Whiskey and Caminada restorations, was a barrier island 7,000 years ago, around the time humans invented the wheel. Then comes the second challenge: getting through all of the oil and gas pipeline that lay in a tangle across the seafloor. “There’s a ton of oil and gas infrastructure on Ship Shoal,” Lee said. “Even if we wanted to, we couldn’t dig up the whole shoal. We have to find blocks that are useable.” Pipeline maps aren’t always reliable, so avoid breaking through a pipe with a dredge, the CPRA and its contractors must use high-powered metal detectors to get the exact locations of undersea obstacles. Once a sandy sweet spot is found, a dredge digs in, vacuums up the sand and pumps it through a pipe to the restoration site. Oil and gas infrastructure can also make offloading the sand difficult. The restoration of East Timbalier Island in Lafourche Parish was mired by an extensive network of active and abandoned oil wells and pipelines, much of it buried and poorly mapped. Already expensive, the project’s budget swelled by over $2 million dollars as workers navigated what project manager Kenneth Bahlinger called “a spiderweb of lines.” At a dredging summit last year, Dartez classified the Whiskey Island project as Louisiana’s “biggest,” Scofield as the “baddest” and Caminada Headland as the “bestest.” While not strictly a barrier island, Caminada serves the same protective role on the coast. Its restoration wasn’t as big as Whiskey in the sheer volume of sand, but it was the first to tap into Ship Shoal, located nearly 35 miles from the headland. It tops Whiskey in money spent, totaling more than $216 million, and it covers more ground, some of which is easily visible to the public. Elmer’s Island, on the project’s east edge, is a popular state wildlife refuge - even more popular now that it’s covered in a thick coating of fine sand. It shields not just 13 miles of marsh, but Port Fourchon, a hub of oil shipping in the northern Gulf, and Highway 1, the only hurricane evacuation route for Grand Isle and other communities. The Caminada project had another surprise benefit - becoming one of the nation’s biggest nesting colonies for least terns, a shore bird threatened by habitat loss. The birds swarmed in just after the project was completed last year, dropping thousands of eggs across the new beach. “Build it and they’ll come,” said Johnson, the Audubon bird conservationist. The big barrier island buildup has come to a close, at least for now. Only 3 percent of the state’s $50 billion Coastal Master Plan is earmarked for barrier islands. Four projects are on the docket - the restoration of Rabbit Island in Cameron Parish and West Grand Terre and Queen Bess islands in Jefferson Parish. The largest project, likely to cost $150 million, is a series of island upgrades in the Terrebonne Basin. The state’s focus is now largely on upkeep. With the natural forces that built and restored barrier islands crippled by dams and levees, the state will need to keep the islands alive by artificial means. That will require regular dredging and sand pumping to replace material chewed away by waves and storms and swallowed by subsidence and rising seas. Mississippi River sediment diversions - a major element of the master plan - could give barrier islands a boost. The Mid-Barataria and Mid-Breton diversions, totaling $2 billion in cost, would funnel some sediment toward the island’s backsides, but there’s concern the diversions could backfire, according to Suhayda. The complex water chemistry in protected bays makes them effective marsh builders. Their balanced mix of saltwater and freshwater has the effect of binding passing river sediment together. These larger sediment clumps sink rather than float away. Allow too much freshwater, Suhayda warns, and the saltwater is pushed out, and the sediment with it. Another concern: maintaining the supply of sand. Ship Shoal can’t keep giving forever, and many nearshore sand sources have been exhausted. “The availability of beach-compatible sand has become increasingly scare,” Dartez said. Coastal managers may have to seek out distant reserves or rely more heavily on sediment dredged from the Mississippi. Money is also a constraint. The BP settlement was a one-time deal. Barring another big disaster-induced windfall, the state will need to find reliable sources of money for expensive repairs and rebuilds. This isn’t a far-future concern. The lifespan of each of the multi-million-dollar restoration projects is a touch more than a house cat’s - 20 years, maybe less. That means Caminada may need another 13-mile, 8.8 million cubic yard coating of sand by 2037. “In 20 years, we’ll be back where we were,” Lee said. “But if we have a stormy decade, we might not get 20 years.”
STOCKHOLM: Inuit hunting grounds in the Arctic circle were given UNESCO World Heritage status on Saturday, the UN agency announced at a meeting in the Bahraini capital Manama. The Aasivissuit-Nipisat area, which lies at the heart of the largest ice-free area in Greenland, “is a cultural landscape which bears witness to its creators’ hunting of land and sea animals, seasonal migrations and a rich and well-preserved tangible and intangible cultural heritage linked to climate, navigation and medicine,” UNESCO said on its website. The area “contains the remains of 4,200 years of human history,” it added. According to the Danish historic monuments office, the area covers more than 4,000 square kilometres (1,500 square miles) of fjords, lakes, rural land and ice caps. It becomes Greenland’s third entry on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Greenland, which is rich in natural resources, gained autonomy from Denmark in 1979 and was granted self-rule in 2009, although Copenhagen retains control of foreign and defence affairs. Despite its name, 85% of Greenland is covered in ice. The UNESCO status is “a great international recognition of the natural beauty we have and the culture associated with it,” Greenland’s culture minister Vivian Motzfeldt said in a statement. UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee, which has been meeting in Manama since June 24, on Saturday also added to the list eight pre-Islamic sites in Iran, Mumbai’s Art Deco buildings, seven ancient Korean mountain Buddhist temples, old Christian sites in Japan and two ancient sites in Germany.
According to Cambodian media, the petition was signed by 56 families. It states that government and company officials “forced us, coerced us and cheated us into thumb-printing a document that stated that we were farming on part of the company‘s land.” The petition requests that the document be “annulled in its entirety.” Residents are also concerned about the intensive chemical processing of the gold ore in the open environment, a process that uses highly toxic chemicals like cyanide and mercury. A gold mine in the remote northern Cambodian province of Preah Vihear is being opposed by local people who claim they have lost their land and are being manipulated by authorities acting for the mining company. On January 12, residents from the affected village of Tropeang Tontem in Rovieng district submitted a petition to the government Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction. It complained about their treatment by local officials and the company allegedly responsible, Delcom Cambodia Pte Ltd. According to the Phnom Penh Post, the petition statement was signed by 56 families. Translated from Khmer to English, it states that government and company officials “forced us, coerced us and cheated us into thumb-printing a document that stated that we were farming on part of the company‘s land.” The statement requested that the document be “annulled in its entirety.” According to local reports, the mine has been expanding since Delcom first obtained a license in 1994. Residents say encroachment on village farmlands and forest by the mine escalated in 2015. “We are completely opposed to this mine continuing its operations until there is a detailed, impartial and independent investigation of the alleged human rights abuses that continue to occur there – which include land-theft,” Alejandro Gonzalez-Davidson, Director of watchdog organization Mother Nature Cambodia (MNC), said in an interview with Mongabay. Local residents tell of heavy-handed tactics used by Delcom when, in 2011, they say its security forces cleared small artisanal miners out of the site who had flocked to the area to make their fortunes. Residents say one miner was killed and several injured by mine security during the removal. Direct clashes have now given way to simmering discontentment as mining operations have scaled-up but land disputes remain unresolved. “Some other families have land titles but right now a lot of families are still arguing about their land,” said Hun Vannak, an activist with MNC. Fresh out of jail for his video activism, he visited the mine site on three occasions last year resulting in the release of a campaign video. He explained that he and a colleague were stopped by security, including Cambodian soldiers, three times while visiting the area. After release of the MNC video last July, officials made efforts to resolve the land disputes by convening a meeting and inviting two of the affected families to negotiate. One family was awarded alternative land near the site: “They measured that the land was 12.5 hectares belonging to Chet Yi’s family. The provincial head asked the commune head to make the land title,” Hun Vannak said. The assertion by local people that mine security is provided by military units stationed in the area is supported by press reports. Sun Ta* a member of MNC who made three visits to the area in 2017 told Mongabay, “I saw a motorbike with an army number plate.” “I am sure. I am not just saying that without knowing about it. It [the mine] is related to H.E. Hing Bung Heng, as those based here are all soldiers, members of his bodyguard unit. I see it every day, they are all from the bodyguard unit,” said village elder Tuy Chenng when he was interviewed by MNC for their video in 2017. General Hing Bun Hiang is reportedly the commander of Prime Minister Hun Sen’s personal bodyguard unit. The General has neither confirmed nor denied the rumor despite questions that have circulated in the Cambodian media concerning his involvement. “At 6pm I heard the noise of blasting,” said one activist who preferred not to be named, explaining that there are two work shifts at the camp and the blasting takes place at night. She claimed that of the thousand or so workers, most are Chinese with very few Cambodians working there. Above one tower on site the Chinese flag can clearly be seen flying. Villagers are also concerned about the intensive chemical processing of the gold ore in the open environment, a process that uses highly toxic chemicals like cyanide and mercury. “Chet Yi’s 13-year-old sons found the containers outside the fence [of the mine site] and brought them to the house,” said Hun Vannak, explaining the photos he took in the affected community last June. One shows a 50-kilogram barrel with a label describing the contents as 98 percent pure sodium cyanide manufactured in Anhui, China. Another shows a plastic beverage bottle appearing to contain mercury. “It does suggest use of potassium or sodium cyanide to dissolve and thereby extract gold from heaped or piled up crude ore,” Richard Harkinson, a mining expert and consultant to the London Mining Network, said in an email to Mongabay. Aerial drone footage captured near the mine by activists shows what appears to be the heap leaching process whereby the gold rock ore is first crushed before being moved into mounds onto which cyanide or mercury is poured to extract the gold particles. The leftover contaminated mine waste slurry called “tailings” are generally stored behind holding dams. Failure of these often poorly constructed dams has been widely identified as the primary cause of numerous international mining disasters. For example in November 2015 the Samarco Mineracao tailings dam in Brazil collapsed, releasing more than 30 million cubic meters of mining waste into a nearby river. “Relatively low concentrations of cyanide can be highly toxic to people and wildlife,” states the website of the Cyanide Code, continuing: “Cyanide is acutely toxic to humans.” The Cyanide Code was set up in 2000 with support from the United Nations Environment Programme as a voluntary mining industry response to repeated spills of cyanide at mine sites. “Spills and other incidents involving cyanide solutions at gold mines such as the January 2000 incident at a Romanian gold mine demonstrated to the gold mining industry‚ governments and the public that better management of cyanide was needed,” its website states. None of the gold mining companies operating in Cambodia are listed as signatories of the Cyanide Code. “The most significant risk from the use of cyanide solutions in gold mining is the possible leaching into soil and groundwater,” states a European Commission report on cyanide. It explains that fish are especially at risk: “Cyanide concentrations of 1 microgram (one-millionth of a gram) per liter of water can be fatal to fish.” “Due to risks to people and the environment a number of countries such as Germany, Hungary and the Czech Republic have banned cyanide in mining,” the report explains. Evidence suggests that Deleum Berhad holdings, a Malaysian company, is still majority owner of subsidiary Delcom Cambodia. The Malaysian company has so far denied any involvement. Deleum’s main business is services to oil and gas industries. The gold mine operations were not directly discussed in its 2016 Annual Review, but the review did mention Deleum’s role as majority owner of Cambodian subsidiaries. Deleum Berhad’s report for 2016 indicates that its wholly owned company, called Deleum Services Holding Limited, owns 60 percent of two companies with similar names to that of the company in charge of the gold mining and processing site in Rovieng: Delcom Power (Cambodia) Limited and Delcom Utilities (Cambodia) Limited. Two government mining licenses support this. One is an agreement between the Cambodian government and Delcom Cambodia Pte Ltd. signed in March of 1994, for mining exploration, development and exploitation in an area covering 216 square kilometers. In 2004 the exploration license was renewed by Cambodian Ministry of Mines and Energy. However press reports indicate that the exploitation license lapsed in 2016 and is in the process of renewal. One of the co-signatories of the 1994 contract is a “Mr. Vivekannathan S/O M.V. Nathan,” acting as the president of Delcom Cambodia Pte Ltd and managing director for Delcom Services Sdn Bhd. The latter assumed its present name of Deleum Berhad in 2006. Deleum Berhad’s website lists, as a member of its board of directors, a Malaysian national by the name of Datuk Vivekannathan a/l M.V. Nathan. He is listed as the group’s current non-executive deputy chairman, having held other positions in the group in the past, including that of managing director and president. However, Deleum’s current ownership of the mine is disputed by the ruling Cambodian People’s Party National Assembly member Thavy Nhem, formerly Managing Director of Delcom Cambodia. On August 4, 2017, the Phnom Penh Post reported that he denied Delcom was involved. “But that company is no longer there,” he said. “We don’t know who is there.” The report also supported statements by community members and mine workers that one of the mines belonged to Hun Seng Ny, Prime Minister Hun Sen’s youngest sister. Although Delcom has had a license to explore and exploit gold, The Ministry of Mines and Energy stated in the Khmer Times that the first officially sanctioned gold mine was the more recently established Mesco Gold. Mother Nature Cambodia director Alejandro Gonzalez-Davidson says this raises questions about the nature of Delcom’s mining license. “The information on the status of the license was not clear,” Gonzalez-Davidson told Mongabay during an interview. “There is hardly any information at all on what are they officially doing: are they prospecting? Are they extracting?” Gonzalez-Davidson says the organization will be opposed to the mine until there is, “an assessment on the environmental impacts the mining and extraction is creating, and until Cambodians get to know how much gold is being extracted out of the area.” Neither Delcom Cambodia nor Deleum Berhad responded to multiple requests for comment for this story, nor did Chea Sophara, Minister of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction. The Ministry of Mines and Energy also declined to comment. *Name changed on request to protect the anonymity of the person interviewed. Banner photo: A drone photo shows the gold mine site and surrounding forest and farmland near the community of Tropeang Tontem. Image courtesy of Mother Nature Cambodia FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the editor of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
Vijayawada: Iron-Age remains found at a burial site in the state have been utterly neglected and even damaged. The sites, dating back to 1000-1500 BC and located on the hill slopes of Dharmavaram village in Addanki mandal in Prakasam district were bulldozed for road works, said noted archaeologist Dr E. Sivanagi Reddy, who is also the CEO of the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati (CCVA). Dr Reddy visited the site along with historian Dr Jyothi Chandramouli and history enthusiast K. Venkateswara Rao visited the on Friday as part of Preserve Heritage for Posterity, a scheme launched by CCVA. “More than 10 burial sites were damaged, but there are still 10 cairn circles built of huge boulders which are intact. These must be protected from vandalism and preserved,” said Dr Reddy. He and his team members have appealed to the state department of archaeology and museums to look into the matter and protect the site. The team also spoke to the local villagers about the historical and archaeological significance of the site and the need to preserve it.
A new road could soon slice through a large portion of the otherwise impenetrable rainforests blanketing Peru’s eastern border. Long a contentious proposition, the road was publicly declared “a national priority” and “in the national interest” by the country’s congress in January. Now, environmental and local activists are marshaling support to defeat the proposed project before any trees are cleared or pavement laid. Opponents worry the road will bring unregulated development to protected areas, threaten the lives of indigenous groups living in voluntary isolation, trample the rights of native communities, and invite drug and timber traffickers to the area. “Once you give access to a place, then there is no stopping the illegal activity,” says Patricia León Melgar, the World Wildlife Fund’s CEO in Peru. “The Interoceanic Highway was supposed to bring trade and tourism to the country by connecting the Atlantic and Pacific. But the projections of trade didn’t happen, the projections of tourism didn’t happen, and something not projected—the complete destruction of 10 percent of [the Amazonian region of] Madre de Dios—happened.” The new road would skim the country’s eastern border with Brazil, running through the regions of Ucayali and Madre de Dios. As envisioned, the 172-mile stretch would connect the Purús provincial capital of Puerto Esperanza in the north to the town of Iñapari in the south. There, it would link up with the continent-spanning Interoceanic Highway, the largest paved artery bisecting the region’s rainforest. “Purús has never had a road even coming close to it,” says Eduardo Salazar, who studies sustainable development in the area. “It is currently only accessible by plane or boat.” During the last year, internecine political battles over the road have left the country’s citizens confused and clamoring to be heard. Peruvian congressman Glider Ushñahua Huasanga proposed the project in April, ostensibly because it would jumpstart economic development for a region that is otherwise disconnected from reliable means of transportation, trade, and tourism. In December, the Peruvian congress approved the bill; the government passed it into law in January. Yet, although the congress has approved the project, several of the government’s ministries—notably the Ministries of Culture and Environment—actively oppose it. As well, several pieces of counter-legislation have been introduced, and numerous organizations promoting the rights of Peru’s indigenous people are speaking strongly against the proposed project, with the intention to protest the bill and any eventual construction. In the road’s way are not only four national parks, but five areas set aside for indigenous groups living in voluntary isolation—most commonly referred to as “uncontacted tribes”—and numerous native communities sprinkled throughout the vast Amazonian basin that are struggling to obtain rights to their lands. That isolated native communities could benefit from increased connectivity and commerce is an easy argument to make in Peru’s remote jungle areas. In fact, the same thing happened recently in Madre de Dios, a region in Peru’s southeast that earned its name because early settlers found its tangled jungles, raging rivers, and hellish temperatures so unbearable they thought only the holy could survive. There, in addition to the behemoth highway, a somewhat analogous situation is slowly unfolding along the Alto Madre de Dios river, which runs between the country’s famed Manu National Park—one of the most biodiverse ecosystems on the planet—and the Amarakaeri communal reserve. In the buffer zones between those protected areas, a road is slowly being built. Originally planned to connect the port of Nuevo Edén with the Colorado gold mining area, the road was pushed through by local government officials who campaigned for support by promising communities an end to the impoverishment that isolation brings. Cheaper, quicker, and safer access means better government services, a faster trip to the agricultural markets in Cusco, improved infrastructure, and stronger relationships with government officials. “The vast majority of people on the ground, indigenous Amazonians and Andean settlers alike, express their support for the road, and quite adamantly so,” says Salazar, who studied the reactions of the local communities while in graduate school at the University of Edinburgh. “Living conditions in these communities are quite dire and it is easy to see why they would go for anything that sounds like it might improve their lives, no matter how risky.” But those promises weren’t realized. In late 2015, road construction mostly stalled somewhere near the town of Boca Manu. Now, lacking the bridges needed to truly transport goods and people back and forth, the unpaved path is predominantly used by illegal loggers and drug runners. “The forest area and the number of indigenous peoples affected would be much larger, since many will be displaced, or will die from diseases, especially the [indigenous groups living in isolation],” says Buendía, who works with the Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Jungle. “Their territories will be invaded and violence and illegal mafias will thrive.” It wouldn’t be the first time natives have suffered at the hands of settlers, historically or even recently. Columbian conquest aside, in 2014, four Asháninka men were killed by illegal loggers they’d encountered on their territory. One of them, Edwin Chota, was a prominent anti-logging activist, but it isn’t clear whether the killings were accidental or in retaliation for ongoing battles over land use. Buendía and others worry that encounters with outsiders could be fatal to these isolated people—not only because of outright violence, but because isolated immune systems are often ill-adapted to deal with diseases like the flu, common cold, or measles, some of which could inadvertently wipe out an entire tribe. “Eleven percent of the Ucayali population is native indigenous people, but for centuries they have been denied the right of recognition of their lands,” León says. In the last 14 months, the WWF has helped 142 communities obtain the rights to their land—but 700 more are still waiting for government recognition. Another concern is for the delicate forest ecosystems in the region, which—again, if history repeats itself—will succumb to unchecked development. Though the Peruvian government has only approved the construction of a primary road, it’s quite likely the illegally built secondary roads will follow. “Building a road is not bad, per se,” León says. “Compare Yellowstone National Park, where the road built is respected—it stays there—and you have an ideal world. But in Brazil, for every kilometer of federal highway in the Amazon, there are 8 kilometers (5 miles) of illegal roads that spring from it.” Those roads, as well as people desiring to settle the newly opened land, could ultimately lead to the destruction of forests, as has been seen not only in Brazil but around the Interoceanic Highway in the Peruvian south. One projection of the amount of forest this new road could jeopardize, calculated by Amazon Conservation's Monitoring of the Andean Amazon Project, foretells the possible destruction of at least 680,000 acres of primary rainforest. The group produced that number by studying satellite images of the lands bordering Peru’s segment of the Interoceanic Highway and tallying up how many acres had been cleared since the road’s construction. It found that most deforestation tends to occur within 5 kilometers (3 miles) of the road itself—and that it all adds up, especially along a road of that length (a different group reached similar conclusions after studying Brazilian roads and associated deforestation). “On one hand I would call it an underestimate because the 5 kilometer-radius is conservative,” says Matt Finer, a research specialist with the organization Amazon Conservation. “On the other hand, it could be an overestimate because the Interoceanic is a major connection highway between Peru and Brazil. So in the end it washes out as a plausible rough estimate.” Most troubling, though, is the overall landscape of inefficient governance. Without proper oversight, placing a road through Ucayali could open up a wild, wild west where anything goes and the law of the land is not necessarily what’s written in the books. If areas farther south are any indication, that means an influx of illegal gold mining, which has transformed such vast amounts of previously pristine rainforest into malignant, strangely colored cesspools of toxic destruction that are visible from space.
(TOKYO) — A volcano in southern Japan that appeared in a James Bond film had its biggest eruption in years Tuesday, shooting smoke and ash thousands of meters (feet) into the sky and grounding dozens of flights at a nearby airport, officials said. The Meteorological Agency said the Shinmoedake volcano on Japan’s southernmost main island of Kyushu erupted violently several times, and some lava was rising inside a crater. Public broadcaster NHK showed gray volcanic smoke billowing into the sky and orange lava rising to the mouth of the crater. The Meteorological Agency said ash and smoke shot up 2,300 meters (7,500 feet) into the sky in the volcano’s biggest explosion since 2011. In Kirishima city at the foot of the volcano, pedestrians wore surgical masks or covered their noses with hand towels, while others used umbrellas to protect from falling ash. Cars had layers of ash on their roofs. There were no reports of injuries or damage from the eruptions. The agency said the volcanic activity is expected to continue and cautioned residents against the possibility of flying rocks and pyroclastic flows — superheated gas and volcanic debris that race down the slopes at high speeds, incinerating or vaporizing everything in their path. The volcano, seen in the 1967 James Bond film “You Only Live Twice,” has had smaller eruptions since last week. Entry to the 1,421-kilometer (4,660-foot) -high volcano was restricted. About 80 flights in and out of nearby Kagoshima airport were canceled. Japan, which sits on the Pacific “Ring of Fire,” has 110 active volcanoes and is prone to earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. An eruption of Mount Ontake in 2014 killed about 60 people. In January, a surprise eruption of another volcano in central Japan killed a soldier during ski training and injured 11 others. Several other Japanese volcanoes have had smaller eruptions.
NEW YORK (June 18, 2018)-- The Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and Yale University have created a plan to preserve one of the last intact forest strongholds for the jaguar and other iconic species in Central America: the Moskitia Forest Corridor. Released today, the report--titled "Stopping the Tide: A Strategy for Maintaining Forest Connectivity within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor"--lays out recommendations on how to protect the ecologically vital forest landscape that straddles both Honduras and Nicaragua. One of the primary findings of the report is that conservation efforts should be focused on four "pinch points" where forest connectivity is threatened. "As one of the largest remaining forest blocks in Central America, this forest corridor is critical to conserve widely ranging species such as jaguars and white-lipped peccaries" said Dr. John Polisar, one of the study's authors and WCS's Jaguar Program Coordinator. "These species are found in Nicaragua's Bosawás Biosphere Reserve, and across river valleys in Honduras such as the recently investigated "Lost City" site in in the Rio Plátano Biosphere Reserve. Maintaining the pinch points that connect forests and wildlife is a top priority." [Read a recently published article on a rapid ecological assessment of the "Lost City" site by conservationists in the Moskitia forest of Honduras here]. The "Stopping the Tide" study found that deforestation in the bi-national Moskitia forest corridor due to unregulated cattle ranching and human settlement has rapidly expanded into protected areas to consume forest habitat, placing the Rio Plátano World Heritage site on UNESCO's "in danger" list. The authors noted that low institutional presence has left these protected areas poorly defended against these threats. The forests of La Moskitia are home to Mayangna, Miskitu, Tawahka, and Pech indigenous communities who seek to maintain the forest and the ecosystem services it provides. The report recommends giving continued attention to the property rights of these indigenous groups and providing assistance in their interests to be effective stewards of the forest and wildlife. The authors prioritize capacity building for local communities and protected area personnel that includes the implementation of SMART (Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool) for patrols to monitor the status of remote forests and facilitate enforcement in areas already impacted by harmful activities. The report also emphasizes the importance of partnerships with local communities to strengthen environmentally sustainable livelihoods such as cacao farming and timber certification programs. In the few zones where raising livestock is legal, the report recommends implementing approaches to reduce deforestation from cattle ranching, improving livestock health and nutrition in space efficient production that decreases the need for deforestation, with producers committing to maintain forest. In preparing this report WCS worked with Yale's Environmental Protection Clinic, which pairs graduate students with organizations that address the intersection between law, policy, and environmental threats. "This report highlights the challenges of evaluating gaps and opportunities for conservation in remote areas and is an example of a productive and innovative collaboration between a conservation organization and graduate programs in environmental studies, in particular in identifying priority areas and the actions needed to maintain biodiversity on a large landscape level" said Manus McCaffery, one of the Yale Graduate students who contributed to this report. "Recent discoveries have highlighted the archaeological and biological importance of the Moskitia forest" said Dr. Jeremy Radachowsky, WCS Director for Mesoamerica and the Caribbean. "However, this exceptional patrimony is in real danger of being degraded and lost within the next few years. Now the urgent challenge is coming together as humanity, joining forces with local communities and Honduran institutions, to ensure that one of Central America's most intact forests and its cultural heritage lasts forever." WCS has long prioritized the protection of intact forest landscapes for their confluence of globally significant values such as conserving biodiversity, mitigating climate change, and sustaining imperiled cultures. A recently published paper in Nature Ecology and Evolution by WCS and other organizations documents how intact forests benefit wildlife and human populations alike, and how their protection should be a key component of national and global environmental efforts. This preliminary work for the Moskitia Forest Assessment was supported by the Liz Claiborne and Art Ortenberg Foundation and the Darwin Initiative. WCS (Wildlife Conservation Society) MISSION: WCS saves wildlife and wild places worldwide through science, conservation action, education, and inspiring people to value nature. To achieve our mission, WCS, based at the Bronx Zoo, harnesses the power of its Global Conservation Program in nearly 60 nations and in all the world's oceans and its five wildlife parks in New York City, visited by 4 million people annually. WCS combines its expertise in the field, zoos, and aquarium to achieve its conservation mission. Visit: newsroom.wcs.org Follow: @WCSNewsroom. For more information: 347-840-1242. Disclaimer: AAAS and EurekAlert! are not responsible for the accuracy of news releases posted to EurekAlert! by contributing institutions or for the use of any information through the EurekAlert system.
United States has the largest geothermal generating capacity globally with 2,500 megawatts followed by Philippines (1,900 MW), Indonesia (1,800 MW), Turkey (1,100 MW), New Zealand (1,000 MW), Mexico (900 MW), Italy (800 MW) and Iceland (750 MW). The rest of the world shares 950 MW. “Kenya’s Olivado plant, which produces oil from avocados, is installing a biogas system that will reduce its waste streams and make the plant self-sufficient in energy, producing 1.5 Gigawatt hours (GWh),” says the report by Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st century (REN21).
By Hiroshi HIYAMA Kumano (AFP) -- Desperate relatives braced for bad news Monday as rescuers dug through landslides in the wake of severe floods that have killed 100 people and left swathes of central and western Japan under water. As floods receded, emergency workers were able to reach previously cut-off places where authorities fear they could find more bodies in the wreckage of homes devastated by rivers of mud and debris. "I have asked my family to prepare for the worst," said Kosuke Kiyohara, 38, as he waited for word of his sister and her two young sons. "I can't reach her phone," he told AFP, sitting across from a house that had been ripped apart and tossed on its side by a huge landslide. At the end of last week rivers engorged by more than a metre (three feet) of rain burst their banks, engulfing entire villages and forcing people to rooftops to await evacuation by helicopter. Hillsides gave way under the weight of water, with deadly landslides crushing wooden houses and erasing roads. On Monday morning, with the sun finally out and temperatures rising, rescue workers dug through mud in a desperate search for survivors, or victims. The government said at least 100 people had been killed, and with many people still missing, the tally was expected to rise further. Search for survivors "A total of 73,000 police, fire department, Self-Defence Forces and Japan Coast Guard personnel, with 700 helicopters, are doing their best as part of the rescue effort," government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said. In Kumano, soldiers and other emergency workers were using diggers to clear crushed cars and mangled homes. But they were moving carefully, looking as they went for survivors, or the remains of those killed in the disaster. In one part of Kumano, the nose of a white car was just visible underneath the top floor of a home that had been torn from the rest of the building and swept down a hillside. Much of the road that once led into the upscale district of a town known for brushmaking was no longer visible, and water was still flowing from the surrounding hillsides around the feet of shellshocked residents. In neighbouring Okayama prefecture, rescue workers flew in helicopters over areas that are still submerged and otherwise unreachable, looking for signs of life. "As far as we could see from the helicopter, no-one is now waving for help," a rescue worker from Kurashiki city told AFP. Local government officials said pumping trucks were being deployed to help restore access to some of the worst-hit areas. "Rescuers had to go by boat yesterday due to flooding but the water is gradually receding today," a spokeswoman at the area's disaster control office said. "If the water level drops low enough, they may be able to access hard-hit areas by road or on foot." Landslide risk Even as the rains let up, authorities warned the downpours had loosened earth on hillsides and mountain slopes creating new risks. "We urge residents to remain cautious about possible landslides," a weather agency official told AFP. And with many people stuck in modestly equipped shelters with few possessions, or living in damaged homes with no running water or electricity, the rising temperatures posed a new problem, authorities said. At one point around five million people were told to evacuate, but the orders are not mandatory and many people remained at home, becoming trapped by rapidly rising water or sudden landslides. In the town of Mihara, roads were transformed into muddy rivers, with dirt piled up on either side as flood water gushed around the wheels of stranded cars. "The area became an ocean," 82-year-old resident Nobue Kakumoto told AFP Sunday, surveying the scene. In the town of Saka, Eiichi Tsuiki opted to stay in his home, and survived only by moving to the top floor as flood waters rose, washing away cars outside. "I've lived here for 40 years... I've never seen this before," the 69-year-old oyster farmer told AFP.
Uzbekistan’s Kamchiq Tunnel commissioned in 2016 is the most important railroad link of the new international China–Central Asia–Europe transit corridor. The launch of the railroad tunnel allowed to significantly improve Uzbekistan’s transit potential at the international scale, and to establish the single railroad system in Uzbekistan. Previously, people had to drive along the highway that passed through the area of Tajikistan in order to get from Tashkent to Fergana, but this issue was solved with the construction of the Kamchiq Tunnel. WANG JIAN, PARTY SECRETARY, KAMCHIQ TUNNEL PROJECT, CHINA RAILWAY TUNNEL GROUP: - Earlier, European and American companies were also interested in this project. However, their implementation timelines were about five or six years. We understood that we could complete the task set by the government of Uzbekistan in three years. The project is really not easy as the length of the tunnel is 19.2 kilometers. The Kamchiq Tunnel is one of the most ambitious intergovernmental projects implemented as part of the One Belt, One Road initiative. Over twenty freight and passenger trains go through the tunnel every day. AKMAL, STAFF, TUNNEL OPERATOR: - Our ancestors, grandfathers and fathers had dreamed about this road for centuries. They always pushed for the construction of this road. This tunnel brings together all the traffic interchanges of our country in the main regions of Uzbekistan. The Kamchiq Tunnel is the longest tunnel not only in Uzbekistan, but in the Central Asia. It is ranked eighth according to the complexity of construction among the similar facilities located in the mountainous regions of the world and rated 13th according to the length of the railroad.
HOLLYN JOHNSON/Tribune-Herald Edan and Nui Mabon swim with their son Haile, 2, at Ahalanui Beach Park in Puna in 2017. The fissure 8 cone and fountain is seen Monday afternoon at the end of Luana Street in Leilani Estates. (USGS/Special to West Hawaii Today) This panorama of Kilauea's summit caldera was made about 10 a.m. Monday from the Keanakanoi overlook on the south side of the caldera. Halema‘uma‘u is visible steaming to the left, and the ongoing ground cracking is visible in the center of the image. (USGS/Special to West Hawaii Today) USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory geology field crews maintain watch over the eruptive activity in the lower East Rift Zone and at Kilauea's summit. Here, a geologist documents the behavior of lava as it exits the fissure 8 cone. Lava enters the upper channel traveling as fast as 18 mph. (USGS/Special to West Hawaii Today) USGS map updated Monday. The open lava channel from fissure 8 is seen Monday morning during a helicopter overflight of the lower East Rift Zone. (USGS/Special to West Hawaii Today) HILO — Ahalanui Beach Park may be the next area threatened by lava as the flow front in lower Puna inches southward toward Warm Ponds. The southern edge of the lava flow from fissure 8 reached less than a mile from Ahalanui by Monday, having shifted nearly 3,000 feet within the previous five days. U.S. Geological Survey geophysicist Jim Kauahikaua reportedly estimated early Monday that the lava could reach the park within the week if it continues at its previous rate. However, Mike Zoeller, a geologist with the University of Hawaii at Hilo’s Center for the Study of Active Volcanoes, said that the rate of the flow moving southward from Kapoho has slowed since the weekend. Within the channel, the highest recorded speed of the lava was approximately 21 miles per hour, Zoeller said. The flow now extends over nearly 10 square miles, Zoeller said, but has so far not suffered a major overflow. Some collapses at the tops of the lava channel walls have occurred, causing small lava streams to leave the channel and travel away from the primary flow. However, Zoeller said that major failures of the levee walls are possible and have historical precedent, so USGS is continually monitoring the channel to identify and warn about possible outbreaks. Zoeller said some of the fissures to the northeast of fissure 8 — which remains the prime driver of the ongoing lava flow — might be active to some capacity but that cannot be confirmed because of the high amount of gas emitted in the area, which has reached up to 25,000 tons of sulfur dioxide a day. Fissures 6, 16, 18 and 22, all of which are northeast of fissure 8, have been weakly active in the last several days. The deformation of terrain around Kilauea summit continues, with semi-regular pressure-driven explosions driving significant slumping of the ground around Halema‘uma‘u. Jessica Ferracane, spokeswoman for Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, said no professional assessment has been made as to the condition of Jaggar Museum, located at the edge of the crater, although the museum has sustained visible damage. Meanwhile, the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Disaster Recovery Center at Keaau High School has received 1,442 visits by residents applying for federal aid as of Sunday, said Garth MacDonald, public information officer for the U.S. Small Business Administration. Most of those visitors are referred to the SBA for low-interest disaster loans, MacDonald said. “A lot of people think, ‘Well, I’m not a business, I don’t qualify for that,’” MacDonald said. However, he said, any homeowners, landlords, businesses and private nonprofits that have sustained disaster-related damage are all eligible for SBA disaster loans. FEMA also announced Monday that renters are eligible for federal disaster loans of up to $40,000 through the SBA, with terms as long as 30 years and interest rates as low as 1.938 percent. MacDonald recommended that residents who have been directly affected by the lava apply for a loan, even if they do not believe they will need one or don’t know exactly how much money they will need. There is no obligation to accept a loan if eligible. In other developments: — In addition to the Rotary Club of Hilo donating proceeds from Hilo Brewfest to the club’s Fund for Puna Lava Relief, Hilo businessman Ed Olson — owner of the Brewfest’s venue, the Wainaku Executive Center — announced Monday he would donate the lease proceeds from the event to recovery efforts as well. The proceeds, which total approximately $6,000, will be donated to community organization Pu‘uhonua O Puna, which offers community-donated supplies to those affected by the lava. — Hawaii County Civil Defense reported that the total number of homes confirmed to be destroyed since May 3 is 657. — The number of evacuees in the two Red Cross shelters is down to 291. Sunday night, 62 residents were inside the Pahoa shelter, with 185 staying outside the shelter, while 22 residents stayed in the Keaau Armory shelter and an additional 23 stayed outside it. — A community meeting will take place at 5 p.m. tonight at the Pahoa High School cafeteria. — A community meeting about the ongoing summit volcanic activity will be held at 6:30 p.m Thursday at Cooper Center in Volcano. Reporter John Burnett contributed to this story. Email Michael Brestovansky at mbrestovansky@hawaiitribune-herald.com.
MEXICO CITY – Strolling through the forest under a canopy of pine trees along a path lined with shaggy native grass, Agustín Martínez Villarreal pauses to point out signs that the endangered volcano rabbit (Romerolagus diazi) passed this way recently. The little creatures were a common sight during his boyhood here, says Martínez, 54, a Mexican peasant farmer and conservationist. Only a few thousand of these endemic animals, known locally as teporingo, remain today. Perhaps even more remarkable than signs of the presence of the teporingo is the fact that its forest home is in Mexico City, the Western Hemisphere’s most populous megacity. The UN defines a megacity as an urban area with over 10 million residents. Mexico City’s greater metropolitan area, which includes nearby Cuernavaca and Toluca, is home to about 22 million people. The term “urban forest” is often used to describe public parks and sidewalk shade trees. But I am standing with Martínez and several other members of a local conservation group, Grupo de Monitoreo Biológico de Milpa Alta, in an actual forest inside the Mexico City limits: the Water Forest. The wind rustles through tree branches. Pine nettles crunch beneath our feet. The occasional bird adds its song to this natural chorus. Inside the hushed enclave of the Water Forest not even a car horn penetrates. Conservationists have taken to calling the Mexico City district of Milpa Alta and the surrounding region Mexico’s “Water Forest” to underscore its importance to sustaining the capital’s water supplies. While Mexico City is infamous for being an asphalt jungle, 59 percent of the city’s territory is actually conservation land. However, the official designation has not stopped illegal logging and urban sprawl from cutting farther each year into the stands of pine (Pinus leiophylla) and oyamel (Abies religiosa) trees and grasslands that sprawl across southern Mexico City. Occasional police operations sweep up illegal loggers and seize marijuana and other illicit crops grown under the cover of the forest. But conservationists here complain that government enforcement efforts pay mere lip service to protecting the 87,291 hectares of conservation land inside the Mexico City limits. In all, the Water Forest region covers nearly a thousand square miles (250,000 hectares) of forest fragments and grasslands, encompasses four mountain ranges, and two adjacent Mexican states – Morelos and Mexico State – national parks such as La Marquesa, Ajusco, Desierto de los Leones, and other protected areas. Martínez said he has seen changes to the forest unfold firsthand in his village, San Pablo Oztotepec, one of the nine original villages in la Delegación de Milpa Alta (similar to a city ward). More than half of San Pablo Oztotepec’s residents are comuneros, or communal farmers like him, descendants of the indigenous people who have lived here for millennia. While it was once a largely isolated farming community, these days some San Pablo Oztotepec residents work the land, while others commute to city jobs. Nearly half the village residents are newcomers who moved here from somewhere else, Martínez says. It is a trend seen in other parts of Milpa Alta, as well, according to the Mexican government. With its proximity to urban job centers, Milpa Alta is seeing explosive growth. While it is Mexico City’s least populous city ward and home to some of the city’s poorest and most marginalized residents, Milpa Alta’s population growth has outpaced Mexico City’s overall growth for decades. In 1990, Milpa Alta residents numbered nearly 64,000, while Mexico City’s total population was 8.2 million. By 2015, Mexico City’s total population has grown to 8.9 million, while Milpa Alta’s population had more than doubled to nearly 138,000 people, according to Mexico’s federal Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía (National Institute of Statistics and Geography). Groundwater: The unseen natural resource Teporingos are not the only ones impacted by rapid urbanization in the Water Forest, scientists say. There are enormously valuable natural resources underground, too: four of the country’s most important underground aquifers that provide much of greater Mexico City’s water. That’s like gold in a region so water-stressed that nearly 20 percent of the Mexico’s capital city residents make do with water service for just a few hours day or a few days a week, according to la Comisión Nacional del Agua (National Water Commission). Modern Mexico City is considered one of the world’s leading “green” cities for its pollution-busting policies such as “one day without a car” that requires residents to leave their cars home one day a week. Yet the city had 262 days – more than two-thirds of the year – in which the air quality was considered mala (bad) in 2016, according to the most recent annual air quality report issued by the Mexico City government. The Water Forest helps regulate man-made climate problems – urban forests in particular are well-known for filtering pollutants out of the air, like smog. It also safeguards the water cycle connected to two of the country’s largest rivers, the Lerma and the Balsas, and the aquifers that supply about two-thirds of the metropolitan area’s water. Despite the water wealth beneath its citizens’ feet, urban water demands have long outpaced supplies here. As much as 40 percent of the city’s water supplies are imported from other parts of Mexico, while aging infrastructure and leaky pipes mean an estimated 40 percent of the water in the system never reaches the taps. In some of the city’s poorest and most populous neighborhoods, such as Iztapalapa, residents have no tap water at all and must purchase what they can afford at exorbitant prices from water trucks, so common that they are referred to locally as la pipa (the pipe). Years of changes Though evidence of human habitation here goes back thousands of years, the basin region surrounding Mexico City still holds more than 2 percent of the world’s biodiversity. Teporingos and Sierra Madre Sparrows (Xenospiza baileyi) – both endangered – live here, as well as pumas (Puma concolor), bobcats (Lynx rufus), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and at least 10 percent of the bird species known to Mexico, according to researchers. While these animals and a wide variety of native plants have survived centuries of human uses and abuses, recent decades of explosive urban growth are taking a toll as human settlements encroach on all sides. An estimated 2,400 hectares (equivalent of 9 football fields) are lost every day in the Water Forest region, according to el Instituto de Geografía de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (the Institute of Geography at the Mexican National Autonomous University). At this rate, experts warn, the Water Forest could be gone within the next half century unless something is done. In recent years, the city’s municipal government has turned its attention to the forest. In the meantime, Martínez, López and other members of the Milpa Alta conservation group are doing what they can to preserve what remains of their forest through tree planting and grasslands restoration, fire fighting, environmental education, and biological monitoring of their forest’s fauna and flora. Agents of protection Rapid urbanization is only one threat to the region’s forests and grasslands. Poverty has led some of Milpa Alta’s comuneros to resort to illegal logging on community land. Also increasingly common is illegally “renting” comunero land for large-scale cultivation of potato and other crops propelling more land clearing, as well as new concerns about agrochemical runoff polluting water downstream residents rely on. “We are losing water in quantity and quality,” said Jürgen Hoth, director of Conservation International’s Water Forest Program in Mexico. “Both are problems for a sustainable future.” Hoth is working with Martínez and other members of Milpa Alta’s Grupo de Monitoreo Biológico on experimental grasslands restoration. Together, they are also documenting ruddy-colored water that runs off the crop rows mixing with spring water bubbling out of the ground in gullies alongside cropland. The discolored water has a strong smell that Hoth says may indicate contamination for agrochemicals but says testing is needed to determine the extent of the problem. The group’s twelve members range from a university-trained forester to local people like Martínez with deep knowledge of Milpa Alta’s ecosystems that come from a lifetime working and living on the land. While they have different backgrounds, they share a commitment to preserving the forest and have known each other for years. Martínez and others in the group have worked side by side to fight forest fires and take part in government-sponsored forestry projects in the past before forming the local conservation organization four years ago. “They are deeply engaged. They’ve been at it for awhile and know what they are doing,” said Janice Astbury, a researcher at the Durham University in England, in an interview via Skype. Astbury got to know the group last year while in Mexico investigating innovative urban sustainability projects. When the group initially formed four years ago, a grant from the Mexican government allowed them to purchase a pickup truck, forestry equipment and night cameras. The photos helped document the forest’s fauna and flora for scientific reasons but also help a lot with community outreach, says Nancy López, who oversees educational efforts for el Grupo de Monitoreo Biológico de Milpa Alta. They started talking with their neighbors about the forest’s importance, launching public service campaigns and photo exhibitions. They distributed beautiful handmade educational materials that are more like do-it-yourself ‘zines’ illustrated with photos of the local fauna and flora that López hopes people will hang onto, taking the message inside to heart, instead of tossing them immediately in the trash. They sell calendars, notebooks, other nature-themed gifts to raise awareness, along with money to cover gas and other expenses of their restoration work in the forest; and visit classrooms, finding allies in elementary school kids and a local children’s bird watching troop. “It’s a way we can awaken an interest in forest conservation in the next generation. Through the children, the parents get involved too,” López said. “Despite the many obstacles, we keep working,” López said. “Each of us has other jobs to help us get by. We end up spending money from our pockets. But we’re so passionate about the cause, we are willing to do it.” Rainwater and flooding Commitment like the one exhibited by members of this Milpa Alta conservation group is rare here. Over the last few decades, campesinos around the country have come to rely on the extra cash they can make from forestry projects financed by the Mexican government, the international community and corporations. But conservationists say campesinos rarely take the initiative to continue the work once the funds are spent. That is not to say that indigenous and campesino communities are not involved in successful forestry in Mexico. In fact, experts say some of the country’s most successful community forestry projects are operated by indigenous people. Though rural communities often resist adopting methods imposed from outside their communities, forestry projects work well here when local people are involved in decision-making and innovation, experts say. The Milpa Alta group, for instance, has learned from past mistakes and taken up stances against government forestry methods they’ve found counterproductive, Hoth says. In the Water Forest, “They are perhaps the best example of a community that has become the steward of the land,” says Hoth, who also works with five other communities in the Water Forest region. Those other villages, he says, increasingly look to members of the Milpa Alta group as role models. “But they are doing it pretty much without any payment and living already in pretty marginal conditions,” he says. “So here a very commendable effort that needs to be supported.” Hoth is working with the Milpa Alta group to restore grasslands that play an essential, if often overlooked, role in capturing rainwater and channeling it through the region’s porous volcanic soil to recharge groundwater. As native grasses are replaced by human settlements and poorly sited tree-planting projects, experts say their loss contributes to flooding in densely populated urban areas downstream, while reducing water available to recharge aquifers. The latter is a problem not limited to Mexico. According to a growing body of scientific evidence, afforestation of grasslands has become a matter of concern in several countries, as climate change mitigation efforts have opened a floodgate of funding for tree planting worldwide. With funding from the Mexican foundation, Fundación Gonzalo Río Arronte, and technical support from Mexico’s Colegio de Postgrados, Hoth and group members took cuttings of the native grasses, including species such as Muhlenbergia spp., Festuca spp. and Stipa spp., and planted them last year in degraded forest areas after nurturing the cuttings in a community greenhouse. Their first experiment on half a hectare in Milpa Alta’s Llano de Morales Valley had a 97 percent survival rate. So this year, they are expanding the project to 50 hectares (about 124 acres), this time forgoing the greenhouse altogether. They will expand on the experiment by directly transplanting cuttings taken from natural grasslands in one area to replant them where grassland has been degraded or cleared away altogether. If it works, it will save time and money, Hoth says. Besides their conservation work, members of the group are experimenting with ways to make a living off the land, while still conserving the forest. While the megacity it supports may be the forest’s biggest threat, it has certain advantages. One is the proximity to a large number of people who might help. The Milpa Alta area regularly attracts weekend hikers, cyclists, birdwatchers and other nature lovers. The group’s members have built a few rustic cabins and dream of a day when they can support itself through ecotourism. “There are people who still see logging as the only viable local economy,” Martínez says. “We want to find alternatives that protect the environment while allowing everyone to make a living.” Correction: This story previously named the village of San Pedro Atocpan as Martínez’s home, but the correct name is San Pablo Oztotepec. Also, lynxes (Lynx rufüs) should have been bobcats (Lynx rufus). We apologize for the errors. Banner image: A Sierra Madre Sparrow inside Mexico City’s Water Forest. Photo courtesy Ulises Martínez, Grupo de Monitoreo Biológico de Milpa Alta. This article was reported in partnership with The Investigative Fund at The Nation Institute. Christine MacDonald is an investigative journalist based in Washington, D.C. You can find her on Twitter at @ccmacdonald. FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
Community organizers celebrated the spirit of collaboration Saturday as they officially dedicated a new micro-housing facility for residents displaced by the ongoing lava flow in Lower Puna. The Sacred Heart Shelter, composed of 20 120-square-foot “tiny houses,” was erected in less than a month on land located below Sacred Heart Catholic Church in Pahoa. Brandee Menino, CEO of Hope Services Hawaii, a nonprofit that operates the largest homeless shelter on Hawaii island, said the project came together swiftly thanks to the cooperative efforts of community groups. “It takes a community; there’s no way Hope Serv­ices could do this on their own,” Menino told the audience. “And look what happened: In less than 30 days, with one vision and one leadership build team, this happened.” The project was initiated by Gilbert Aguinaldo, a Pahoa resident and member of Puuhonua o Puna, a community organization dedicated to assisting those impacted by the lava flow, and Darryl Oliveira, former Hawaii County Fire Department chief, former Hawaii County Civil Defense administrator and current manager at HPM Building Supply. The two men worked with Hope Services Hawaii and the Roman Catholic Church Diocese of Honolulu to secure a plot of land, owned by the church and leased by Hope Services, on Pahoa Village Road across from Pahoa High and Intermediate School. The team then worked with the Hawaii County Mayor’s Office, the Hawaii County Planning Department, and the Hawaii County Corporation Counsel to secure an emergency proclamation that allowed the project to move ahead without normal building requirements. Funding for the project came from a $75,000 grant from Hawaii Island United Way and a $25,000 donation on behalf of Hu Honua Bioenergy. Hundreds of volunteers joined members of the Hawaii National Guard in constructing the temporary homes. More than 60 households applied for temporary housing at the shelter. Priority was given to people older than 60 years and families with children younger than 18. The units are not equipped with electricity or running water, but residents have access to two facilities that have a sink, toilet and shower. Project Vision Hawaii loaned a mobile hygiene trailer, shipped for free by Young Brothers, to support the initial move-in. Several other local businesses donated labor and supplies to help establish the shelter, including Puna Growers Supply, which donated landscaping services, and T&T Electric, which donated a solar-energy system.
A potentially harmful algae bloom covered more than 700 square miles in the western basin of Lake Erie last week, turning the lake bright green and alarming residents and local officials. While not all algae blooms are toxic, they can produce a type of toxin called microcystin that can cause serious liver damage under certain conditions. Dangerous levels of the toxin caused Toledo, Ohio, to shut down the drinking water supply of a half-million residents for three days in 2014. In total, almost 3 million people get drinking water from the central basin of Lake Erie. Officials have been testing the intake pipes in the lake where towns draw water and report that the current toxin levels are low. “An awful lot of money may go someplace else other than Ohio if we continue having these issues in the lake,” Mr. Spangler said. He noted that in 2015, an algae bloom kept boats out of the lake for six to seven weeks. A chart illustrating the maximum extent of summertime algae blooms with an earlier version of this article displayed inconsistently units for the area of the blooms and also labeled incorrectly the units. The units should have been uniformly displayed either in thousands or as direct values. They should also have been labeled in square miles, not miles.
More than 6,400 tree saplings were planted on four hectares of land at Chang Debsi in Thimphu on June 2. The land had remained barren following a fire in the past. The plantation was done under a Druk Holding and Investments (DHI) initiative – supporting green compensatory plantation (SGCP) programme, which began in 2017. The programme includes afforestation in blank areas, reforestation in degraded/deforested areas and rehabilitation of fire burnt, and pest/disease-affected areas. The programme also includes plantation to protect the watershed areas and commercial tree plantation. This year, facilitated by Natural Resources Development Corporation Limited (NRDCL), the Bank of Bhutan Limited (BoBL) and Druk Air Corporation Limited (DACL) were involved in the plantation. NRDCL’s chief executive officer, Sonam Wangchuk, said that trees, which would provide timber such as blue pine and oak, are planted at the site. “These timbers are expensive in other countries and can be used to make furniture. But currently it is being used for firewood. Since we extract timber, we also need to make sure to replace it.” About 200 staff from BoB, NRDCL, and DACL took part in the plantation on the day that is observed as social forestry day in the country. Sonam Wangchuk said the trees would be monitored and maintained for five years to ensure successful growth. “NRDCL provided the tree saplings for free. The fund from these two companies will be used for maintenance, fencing, and labour,” he said. Losing the saplings to cattle was raised as one challenge in ensuring successful growth. “Cattle are a problem in most areas. We have to replant, which increases the cost. There are success stories as well, where the site turned beautiful and was handed over to the department of forests and park services (DoFPS),” Sonam Wangchuk said. According to a press release from NRDCL, the company in partnership with other DHI companies has planted trees on about 22 hectares of land last year with an investment of Nu. 3.95 million (M). A total of 35,200 number of tree saplings was planted. From 1989 to 2017, NRDCL has created 2,069.78 hectares of plantation across the country and 881.36 hectares of established plantation was handed over to DoFPS in 2015. Apart from the compensatory plantation, NRDCL in 2018 will create 58.35 hetares of plantation with an investment of Nu 3.75M and further maintain an existing plantation of 448 hectares with investment totaling Nu 6M, the press release stated.
Morocco has officially turned on a massive solar power plant in the Sahara Desert, kicking off the first phase of a planned project to provide renewable energy to more than a million Moroccans. The Noor I power plant is located near the town of Ouarzazate, on the edge of the Sahara. It's capable of generating up to 160 megawatts of power and covers thousands of acres of desert, making the first stage alone one of the world's biggest solar thermal power plants. When the next two phases, Noor II and Noor III, are finished, the plant will be the single largest solar power production facility in the world, The Guardian says. Morocco currently relies on imported sources for 97 percent of its energy consumption, according to the World Bank, which helped fund the Noor power plant project. Investing in renewable energy will make Morocco less reliant on those imports as well as reduce the nation's long-term carbon emissions by millions of tons. The plant is similar to large-scale plants located in the Mohave Desert in the U.S. Solar thermal power plants capture the sun's energy as heat, then convert water into steam and turn turbines. As NASA explained last month: "The system at Ouarzazate uses 12-meter-tall [39-foot-tall] parabolic mirrors to focus energy onto a fluid-filled pipeline," NASA's Kathryn Hansen wrote. "The pipeline's hot fluid — 393 degrees Celsius (739 degrees Fahrenheit) — is the heat source used to warm the water and make steam. The plant doesn't stop delivering energy at nighttime or when clouds obscure the sun; heat from the fluid can be stored in a tank of molten salts." (Why was NASA chiming in? Well, because the power plant is large enough that — even with only one stage completed — it's visible from space.) The ability to store the heat to make energy when the sun is not immediately shining is a major advantage of solar thermal power (also called concentrated solar power or concentrating solar power). Unlike photovoltaic systems, thermal systems don't suddenly drop in output when a cloud passes over the sun, and you don't need batteries to store some energy for nighttime use. In Morocco, as the BBC notes, the first stage of the power plant will generate electricity for three hours after nightfall, and the full complex is meant to produce power 20 hours a day. The Guardian, writing about the project in October, noted that the technology is more expensive and less widely used than photovoltaic panels like you might see on residential roofs, but is well-suited for harnessing the desert's solar energy: "The potential for solar power from the desert has been known for decades. In the days after the Chernobyl nuclear accident in 1986 the German particle physicist Gerhard Knies, calculated that the world's deserts receive enough energy in a few hours to provide for humanity's power needs for a whole year. The challenge though, has been capturing that energy and transporting it to the population centres where it is required. "As engineers put the finishing touches to Noor 1, its 500,000 crescent-shaped solar mirrors glitter across the desert skyline. The 800 rows follow the sun as it tracks across the heavens, whirring quietly every few minutes as their shadows slip further east." They'll soon be joined by hundreds of thousands more mirrors: As Morocco's King Mohammed VI commissioned Noor I, he also officially launched the construction of Noor II and Noor III.
Updated June 06, 2018 14:56:01 Heritage Victoria has granted permission for the derelict Morwell Power Station in the Latrobe Valley to be demolished, despite it being listed on the Victorian heritage register. The demolition permit applies to the coal-fired power station, but not the associated briquette factory, which is expected to be returned to use as an industrial site in the future. The Morwell Power Station opened in the 1950s but has fallen into disrepair since it closed in 2014. Photo: A 1959 publicity photo for Morwell's power station and briquette factory. (Supplied: Victorian Public Records Office) Lobbying by Latrobe Valley history groups led to its heritage listing in February. Heritage Victoria's executive director Steven Avery said a conditional demolition approval was granted for the power station only. "After a thorough assessment process we have elected to grant a heritage permit subject to conditions, allowing for the demolition of buildings associated with the use of the place as a power station. "There's quite a lot of conditions associated with this permit," Mr Avery said. "The conditions include that there must be detailed archival recording of the buildings and elements that will be demolished. "As part of this decision, Heritage Victoria considered a range of factors, including the impacts on cultural significance, reasonable and economic use of the place, and risks to public safety relating to asbestos contamination." Demolition decision angers heritage lobby Moe resident, Cheryl Wragg, was behind the power station's heritage nomination and said the decision to allow its demolition showed contempt for the region. Ms Wragg said archival recordings of the power station would not provide the same insights into the energy industry as being able to walk through the historic buildings. "It's not good enough. There's no replacement for the real thing," she said. Ms Wragg said she wanted the power plant to be preserved for its historic significance. "It's the oldest coal-fired power station in the state. "It's the rarest in terms of engineering and it's the only remnant of Victoria's briquetting industry. "It demonstrates the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, which changed the course of Victoria's history," Ms Wragg said. The Morwell site contains between 10,000 and 15,000 cubic metres of class A and B asbestos, mainly in the power station. Energy Brix wants to bury the old asbestos onsite, about 600 metres from homes. The Latrobe City Council denied Energy Brix's asbestos dump application, despite approval by the Environment Protection Authority. Latrobe City Councillor Graeme Middlemiss said the proposed dump site was too risky and too close to houses. The company has warned the rejection of its asbestos dump proposal could result in greater risks to the community as the alternative is for asbestos waste to be driven through Melbourne. Energy Brix remediation general manager, Barry Dungey, said other local waste sites were unable to take the volume of asbestos waste that the power plant will produce. "We have proven by all the regulators that we meet all the requirements of the council planning laws," Mr Dungey said. "Our only choice if we cannot get council approval on this proposal is to basically send it via truck past Tullamarine airport." Topics: electricity-energy-and-utilities, regional, energy, asbestos, environmental-impact, environmental-health, history, coal, morwell-3840, melbourne-3000, moe-3825, tullamarine-3043 First posted June 06, 2018 14:47:32
Heavy rains have triggered the partial collapse of a huge mound of garbage in Mozambique’s capital, burying and killing at least 17 people. Authorities said more bodies might be buried at the Hulene garbage dump on the outskirts of Maputo and a search was under way on Monday. The garbage in the poor, densely populated area where the disaster happened rose to the height of a three-storey building, according to the Portuguese news agency Lusa. Lusa and Radio Mocambique both reported 17 deaths. Half a dozen homes were destroyed and some residents in the area fled for fear of another collapse. “The mountains of garbage collapsed on the houses and many families were still inside these residences,” Fatima Belchoir, a national disaster official, told Lusa. Authorities were trying to help people who lost their homes, she said. The Hulene garbage dump is the largest such facility in Maputo. People often comb through the garbage searching for food and items to sell. Health workers have long raised concerns about the impact of the fumes, flies and other hazards of the dump on the surrounding community. Municipal officials have discussed closing it.
By Awa B. Bah The National Assembly (NA) Select Committee on the Environment, continued with their visit to mining sites and environmental hot spots during the course of last week. As part of its mandate, the NA select committee on the environment is assigned to assess environmental challenges and make recommendations to Government. On day four, the Committee visited the Kanifing Municipal Council. The committee during their visit of the Municipality, went to Bakoteh Dumpsite, Kuto Steam and Bridge, Dippa Kunda Chupe town, Latrikunda Sabiji Dumpsite, Bundung Nema stream and Abuko / Fajikunda Gully. The committee engaged local authorities of the dumpsites visited and called for greater effort in waste management and environmental protection. After a detailed interaction with those assigned to manage and look after the dumpsites, the NAMs assured them that the issues raised will be tabled before the National Assembly and Government for consideration; that waste management remains a big challenge in the country, despite efforts both at the national and international levels. They called for the need for waste to be properly managed and expressed disappointment with the local authorities Sainey Touray and Suwaibou Touray, both members of the committee, called on the Municipal Councils to adhere to their promise and desist from encouraging illegal dumping especially in public spaces. They advised residents of the Municipality to also desist from dumping at random. The committee urged the public to take the responsibility of maintaining and managing public places clean.
A mysterious crack has been spreading across a giant Greenland glacier, and it's raising concerns that part of the floating ice shelf could splinter off into the ocean. That could be bad. Scientists with the NASA field campaign Operation IceBridge recently captured the first photographs of the growing rift while flying over Petermann Glacier, a structure that connects the Greenland ice sheet to the Arctic Ocean. The new chasm appears in the center of the glacier's floating ice shelf — the tongue of ice that extends into the water from the grounded glacier on land. In the photos, the crack appears relatively close to a larger rift spreading toward the shelf's center. Should the two intersect, part of the ice shelf in northwest Greenland could potentially break off. There may be a savior for the shelf. A "medial flowline" in the ice could have a "stagnating effect" on the newer rift, helping to slow or halt its advance toward the older chasm, scientists with Operation IceBridge said on Facebook. Stef Lhermitte, a professor at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, first alerted the NASA team to the crack's coordinates after spotting it in satellite images, Washington Post reported. Polar-orbiting satellites showed the chasm for the first time in July 2016, and "it has been growing since then," Lhermitte said on Twitter. While scientists still aren't sure what caused the crack to form, Lhermitte said a possible culprit might be "ocean forcing," a phenomenon that happens when warm ocean waters melt the ice from underneath. Ocean forcing might also be responsible for creating cracks in another part of the world. Researchers believe it caused deep subsurface cracks to form in Antarctica's Pine Island Glacier, they said in recent study. There a 20-mile-long rift eventually split the ice from the inside out and cleaved off a 225-square-mile iceberg in July 2015. Many of the glaciers in Greenland and Antarctica that end in floating ice shelves have been shrinking due to warming ocean and air temperatures. When ice shelves break off into icebergs it doesn't directly increase sea levels, because the ice is already floating in the ocean, like an ice cube in a glass. However, because the ice shelves act like doorstops to the land-based ice behind them, if the shelves disappear, the glaciers can start moving into the sea. This would add new water to the ocean and therefore raise sea levels. In the case of Antarctica's Pine Island Glacier, researchers said that warming waters causing cracks to form beneath "provides another mechanism for rapid retreat of these glaciers, adding to the probability that we may see significant collapse of West Antarctica in our lifetimes." Greenland, Antarctica, the message is our planet is clearly changing.
Survivors and witnesses of a plane crash in Nepal have described the chaotic moments when the aircraft went down, killing at least 49 people. The flight, carrying 71 passengers and crew, crashed while landing at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan airport. Witnesses said there was a loud bang and that the plane shook violently while people wept inside the aircraft and chanted. The cause of the crash remains unclear, and an investigation is under way. The flight data recorder has been retrieved from the wreckage. It is the worst aviation disaster to hit Nepal in years. The Himalayan nation has a chequered history when it comes to air safety, with more than 70 crashes involving planes and helicopters since 1949, the year the first aircraft landed there. Most accidents have been attributed to bad weather, inexperienced pilots and inadequate maintenance. 'A loud bang' This aircraft was a 17-year-old Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 turboprop flying from the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka and was being operated by Bangladeshi airline US-Bangla. One survivor recalled the fire, but not how he made his way out of the aircraft. "After the crash I was trying to [get] out of the plane because it was on fire but I could not, my hand and leg was trapped," Keshav Pandey told BBC Nepali. "I was on the seat by the side of the emergency door, [so] maybe I fell outside when [security came] and they opened the door. After that I don't remember anything, I was unconscious." Another survivor also described the moment of impact to BBC Nepali. "There was a huge fire outside and smoke gushed into our cabin. Then there was [an] explosion. The fire was extinguished and we were rescued outside," Sharin Ahmed, a 29-year old teacher from Bangladesh said. "All of a sudden the plane shook violently and there was a loud bang," Basanta Bohora told reporters from his hospital bed. "I was seated near a window and was able to break out." "The plane was going up down, right and left, up down. So I thought that was some air traffic only," Sanam Shakya, who also escaped through a window, told AFP. Shradha Giri, who was on board a nearby plane with her daughter, told the BBC: "There was a lot of chaos out there, lot of security personnel running towards it, a lot of ambulances and fire trucks approaching the site where it had crashed." "It was traumatising just to be with my little girl out there...everybody was shaken up because just something like that to happen in front of your eyes." The general manager of Tribhuvan airport, Raj Kumar Chhetri, also told BBC Nepali that relatives of the victims and survivors are set to arrive in Nepal on Tuesday. Most of those on the plane were Nepalese and Bangladeshis. A number of survivors remain in hospital. It is still not clear what caused the crash. While the airline blames air traffic control, the airport says the plane landed from the wrong direction. A recording of the conversation between the pilot and air traffic control minutes before the plane crashed suggests some misunderstanding over which end of the sole runway the plane was cleared to land on. "Unfortunately unclear communications have been the cause of past crashes," aviation analyst Greg Waldron of Flight Global told the BBC. "This is true both of ground to air communications, as well as crew communications in the cockpit." Nepal is seen as one of the world's more dangerous places to fly. In addition to the mountainous terrain, quick-changing weather conditions add to the challenges for the pilots. "Meteorological data from the time of this crash suggest there were thunderstorms in the vicinity, with a variable crosswind from the west," Mr Waldron explains. Monday's crash was the deadliest since a Pakistan International Airlines plane crashed in 1992, killing all 167 on board.
New satellite images show the growing extent of an enormous algal bloom in Southern Florida, causing a state of emergency in four counties. The images, taken by the Operational Land Imager on NASA’s Landsat 8 satellite, show Lake Okeechobee and the surrounding area from July 2, after the larger-than-average bloom had grown from 33 square miles in early May to an estimated 239 square miles. This estimate by the Florida Oceanographic Society is a 500 percent increase over two months. The area is almost a third of the area of Lake Okeechobee, the second-largest lake in the contiguous United States. Algal blooms are caused by a buildup of Nitrogen and Phosphorus in waterways, mostly from water runoff picking up nutrients while flowing over heavily fertilized land, like farms and golf courses. The nutrient increase causes algae to prosper. But with more algae, the water’s oxygen levels drop, and the algae release toxins that can kill off other aquatic life, like fish and plants. Toxins can also poison humans. Coming in contact with the water can cause nausea, vomiting and, in extreme cases, liver failure. Scientists believe that Florida’s wet winter not only caused an increase in runoff, but also caused the spread of the algae and toxins, when state water managers started discharging water early this year through the St. Lucie Canal and out to the Atlantic Ocean near Stuart, Florida. With the state of emergency declarations, Florida Governor Rick Scott has also asked the federal government for emergency funds. But some scientists believe that the governor and Floridians should not be surprised by the bloom. “I’m a little bit tickled by our governor asking for this to be declared a federal disaster,” said Dale Gawlik, a biologist at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, in an interview with New Scientist. “Scientists have been saying for decades, ‘we’ve got to clean up this water, and if you don’t these kinds of things can happen.’”
Norsk Hydro, a bauxite and aluminum mining and refining company also known as “Hydro” whose majority and controlling shareholder is the Norwegian government, has been accused by the Brazilian government of a toxic waste spill from holding basins at its Hydro Alunorte facility. The operation, located in Barcarena municipality, Pará state, near the mouth of the Amazon River, is the largest aluminum refining plant in the world. The company denies responsibility for any spill, but says it is cooperating fully with officials. Also last week, Norsk Hydro was accused of possessing a “clandestine pipeline to discharge untreated effluent” into a set of Muripi River Springs in a report by the Evandro Chagas Institute of Brazil’s Ministry of Health. The Norwegian mining giant at first denied this accusation, then admitted to it. “During one of the inspections, there was a pipeline with a small flow of reddish water in the refinery area,” the company says. “As requested by the authorities, the company is making the necessary investigations to identify the origin and nature of the material, as well as carrying out the immediate sealing of this pipeline.” Norsk Hydro spill under investigation Major storms on February 16 and 17 allegedly caused Norsk Hydro’s toxic holding basin to overflow, resulting in contamination of water used by Bom Futuro and several other nearby villages. Locals worry the accident could be similar to Brazil’s worst mining disaster ever, the Mariana spill on the Doces River in 2015. High levels of lead, aluminum, sodium and other toxins have been detected in drinking water up to two kilometers away from the Norsk Hydro property, according to the Ministry of Health. The pH recorded in the waters was 10, extremely alkaline, likely due to caustic soda used to process bauxite, the raw material for making aluminum. Pará State Attorney General Ricardo Negrini said in a Friday news conference there is “no doubt” a spill has occurred, but there is no data yet regarding the incident’s cause, size, or consequence. After initial complaints were made by community residents about the spill, Hydro sent a note to its customers describing the episode as “rumor,” stating that “there were no leaks or ruptures” in the waste holding basin. The company also denied the spill on its website Sunday, saying that, “Internal and external inspections have not found proof of overflow and leakage from the bauxite residue deposits at Hydro Alunorte,” and that “The water has been collected, channeled and treated in the industrial effluent treatment station as normal.” However, the company told BBC Brazil “it is committed to correct any problem that may have been caused by its operation,” adding that “Hydro Alunorte informs that it is immediately providing potable water to the communities of Vila Nova and Bom Futuro, with the support of Civil Defense. The company undertakes to collaborate with the communities where the samples were collected by the Evandro Chagas Institute, to find permanent access solutions to drinking water, together with stakeholders.” The firm also said it would launch a task force to investigate. According to a health expert, “The [local] population uses these waters [near the storage basins] for recreation, consumption and capture of fish,” so that proximity could lead to contamination of soils and bio-accumulation. Results of tests for toxins done on hair and skin of those living near the spill won’t be available for several weeks. Asked about the clandestine pipeline described by the health ministry report and its denial of the spill, the company said it is waiting to receive an official report before commenting further. The Norwegian government stated that it would not be able to respond to questions submitted by Mongabay in a timely manner for this story. Brazil responds to the spill Last Friday, the independent prosecutors of the Federal Public Ministry (MPF) and Pará state sent Norsk Hydro a document requesting immediate closure of the Norsk Hydro holding basin. According to the agencies, there is a risk of a breach of the waste pond, which has raised fears of a tragedy similar to that of Mariana in 2015, when a toxic mud wave buried the village of Bento Rodrigues and spread down the Doce River for 500 miles to the Atlantic Ocean. However, Luiz Jardim, a geographer and State University of Rio de Janeiro professor, told BBC Brazil that the dams at Mariana and Barcarena “have different natures,” with the Norsk Hydro holding basin presenting less of a threat. “In Mariana, the dam [was] much higher,” he said. But the slope is much less “in the Amazon, where there is a fluvial plain, so the force of the rupture, if it occurs, will be smaller. Barcarena [municipality does, however have the] potential for contamination by tailings.” In June of last year, BBC Brazil revealed that Hydro was the target of a series of denunciations by the Federal Public Ministry (MPF) of Pará, as well as almost 2,000 lawsuits for contamination of rivers and communities in Barcarena. According to IBAMA, Brazil’s environmental agency, the company has not paid fines set at R $17 million (US $5.27 million) to date, after a toxic overflow in 2009. According to IBAMA, the leak at that time put the local Barcarena population at risk and generated “significant destruction of biodiversity.” Memories of this previous trauma may have augmented concern expressed by local residents over the new spill. “This is not the first leak,” said Sandra Amorim, a resident of the São João quilombola (made up of former slave runaways), a kilometer from the Norsk Hydro holding basin. Back then, she said, “They first denied it, and after the report they said it had a leak. They promised that they [would] start distributing drinking mineral water and food. That’s not enough for us, we do not want crumbs, we want this situation solved.” She added that there are currently “people with itchy bodies and people getting sick” in the community. There is as yet no official confirmation of contamination of local residents by the Evandro Chagas Institute. The Brazilian Bar Association in Pará (OAB-PA) said that in response to the discovery of the illegal pipeline that they will request the removal of the Secretary of Environment of Pará, Thales Belo, and ask for judicial intervention in the Secretariat of Environment and Sustainability of Pará (SEMAS), the state’s environmental agency. “It caused special indignation [when the health ministry found] a ‘clandestine’ drain, whereby the company, with the acquiescence of SEMAS, drained tailings when the rains intensified,” said OAB-PA. A region benefited and harmed by mining Barcarena, an estuarine region broken up by small rivers and islands, has seen its population grow at a rate three times faster than the rest of Brazil over the last 40 years, thanks to jobs generated by mining companies. But the province has experienced disorderly growth as it has become a major exporter of mineral commodities (bauxite, aluminum and kaolin), soy and cattle. “The history of environmental accidents in Barcarena is impressive, an average of one per year,” Attorney General Bruno Valente, who signed a public civil action filed in 2016, told the BBC last June. “Sludge overflow from Hydro’s tailings basin affected a number of communities in 2009, and to date there has never been a compensation or fine payment,” he said. Norwegian mining and processing companies are major producers of the world’s aluminum. The Norwegian government gained international headlines last year by publicly criticizing Brazil’s rising Amazon deforestation rate during a state visit by Brazilian President Michel Temer to Norway. In December, the Scandinavian country reduced by 60 percent to $42 million its annual contribution to Brazil after another annual rise in forest destruction. Some question whether the Norwegian government is acting fairly by causing environmental degradation in Brazil via its mining operations while simultaneously withholding funding due to its criticism of increased deforestation under the Temer government. Max Nathanson is a graduate student in the University of Oxford’s Department of International Development and a freelance photojournalist. See his work at maxnathanson.com and follow him on Twitter @TheMaxNathanson. FEEDBACK: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
I had the whole of Palestine to myself that day. It was only a short swim from Lebanon but, as I waded ashore out of the shallow, soupy water, it became clear that I was the only visitor the island had seen for some time. Clambering to the top of the hill, over a lunar landscape populated by the occasional piece of driftwood and the odd discarded beer bottle, I could see the sandy mounds of Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Ethiopia beyond, rising out of the sea like bobbing croutons. The gleaming spire of the Burj Khalifa twinkled through the haze on the distant horizon. A decade since it was dredged from the seabed, The World is a forlorn sight. It was the most ambitious plan of Dubai’s pre-crash bubble, topping the creation of peninsulas shaped like palm trees and the construction of the tallest building on the planet, dreamed up as the ultimate trophy project to trump them all. In pursuit of the world’s attention, the oil-rich emirate would remake the world itself. “The Palm puts Dubai on the map,” proclaimed the marketing material at the time. “The World puts the map on Dubai.” Conceived in 2003, the project was to be an exclusive offshore playground for film stars, royalty and celebrity tycoons: an artificial archipelago of 300 islands set two miles off the coast. Invitations to “Own the World” were sent to a targeted group of 50 potential buyers each year, offering tours of the site by yacht or helicopter, with prices for the islands ranging from $15-50m (£10-36m). Richard Branson posed for photos on little Britain in a Union Jack suit; Karl Lagerfeld launched plans for a fashion-themed island; rumours swirled that Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie had acquired Ethiopia for their ever-expanding clan of adopted children. After five years of dredging, which saw 320 million cubic metres of sand and 25 million tonnes of rock hauled into place, the final stone in the breakwater was laid in January 2008 – on the eve of the global financial crisis. The vision collapsed just as quickly as the computer renderings had been conjured. Dubai World, the government investment arm in charge of the project, was revealed to have debts of $60bn. Surveying the barren spots of sand that dot the sea today – which, in aerial images, make it look as if the Gulf is suffering from a nasty case of acne – it’s hard to shake the sense of an Ozymandian ruin. Covering more than 5,000 hectares – almost seven times the size of Venice – and encircled by a 20-mile-long breakwater, the remains of The World lie as a mind-boggling monument to the spectacular hubris of a moment in time when anything seemed possible. The owners of Ireland were planning to rebuild the Giant’s Causeway, along with typical Irish streets, pubs and rolling green countryside. A Chinese billionaire had drawn up plans to remake Shanghai’s skyline on his island, complete with a copy of the Oriental Pearl TV Tower. A company called Opulence Holdings had acquired Somalia, with ambitions to sculpt it into the shape of a seahorse, where residents could hit golf balls from their balconies. Overnight, billions of pounds in construction contracts evaporated in a puff of sand, leaving a trail of bankruptcies, lawsuits and unpaid debts. The owner of Great Britain, Safi Qurashi, was jailed, accused of bouncing £50m of cheques (for which he was later exonerated, after serving three years), and the owner of Ireland, John O’Dolan, killed himself in early 2009. After years of being hounded by irate investors wondering where their money had gone, the British co-owner of Thailand, Imtiaz Khoda, was recently jailed for an unrelated fraud, as part of a group that conned NHS hospitals, councils and a government out of more than £12m. Dogged by associations with shell companies and criminal dealings, the whole project became toxic, damned by rumours of money-laundering, pyramid schemes and reports that the islands were sinking into the sea. Lebanon was the only island that opened to the public, and it still struggles on today. For 200 dirham (£40), you can spend the day at its world-weary beach club, paddling in the pool and eating wagyu beef sliders on a faded fibreglass sun lounger. The island plays host to champagne-fuelled jamborees by night, as a venue for fashion shows, DJ parties and debauched corporate events. It seems like an appropriate place for a bit of end-of-the-world hedonism, surrounded by a scene of post-apocalyptic desolation. So it comes as some surprise to learn that construction is back under way. Standing on Lebanon’s beach alongside a small handful of other bewildered tourists, I see diggers in the distance, shifting sand beneath what looks like the frame of a substantial new building on an island next door. Trucks are trundling from a concrete batching plant on Monaco over towards Sweden, where a series of villas are under construction, designed in collaboration with Bentley Home. On Italy, the Portofino Hotel is rising out of the sand, billed as the first family-oriented five-star hotel in the region. The ground is being prepared for the arrival of a sprawling Alpine-themed complex on the island of Switzerland, while a speedboat brings a couple of Emirati buyers to view a floating show home, and to marvel at the view from its glazed underwater bedroom. After a decade in limbo, The World is back – with more ambitious plans than ever before. “I am going to make it snow all year round,” says Josef Kleindienst. He is sitting in a white leather armchair in his office at the top of a tower in Dubai, from where he can survey the fronds of the Palm Jumeirah stretching out into the sea below. In the room next door stands an enormous model of his vision for the Heart of Europe, a fantastical concoction of Austrian castles, Swiss chalets and Russian palaces (and, oddly, Polynesian huts) set across a group of six islands, connected by meandering walkways and baroque bridges. “Rain and snow might not be so attractive if you live in northern Europe, but to someone in Dubai they are magical things,” he says. “People here dance in the street when it rains.” With his heavy Austrian accent, imposing stature and chilly demeanour, Kleindienst has the air of a Bond villain, and I half expect him to unveil a giant laser cannon for making it snow on his desert islands. He explains how he has been working with scientists at the Fraunhofer Society in Germany to develop outdoor cooling technology using cold water. It has the same energy consumption and uses the same principle as conventional air conditioning, he says, except that the water will fall from a network of pipes in the form of rain. On a plaza in the Swiss-themed resort, the temperature will be cranked down a few notches to make snowflakes, which he says will settle on the ground thanks to cooling pipes buried beneath the surface. As a former police chief inspector, who set up his property development business in 1998 and moved to Dubai in 2002, Kleindienst makes an unlikely saviour of The World. He bought the island of Austria in 2006, before catching the bug and acquiring three more islands, then another three. Owners received access to their patches of sand from the master developer, Nakheel, in September 2008, one month before the full force of the financial crisis hit Dubai. “There was a chance, and there was a risk,” he says. “All the others saw the risk and left. We saw the chance and stayed.” As we walk around the big model, Kleindienst ticks off his countries and attractions, like God inspecting his handiwork on the seventh day. “St Petersburg is our honeymoon island,” he says, pointing out a blob of land that they have remodelled in the shape of a heart, dotted with thatched cabins, from which long piers extend to provide mooring posts for “Floating Seahorse” villas, on sale for 12-15m dirham (£2.3m–£2.9m). “Then we have the main Europe island, with our Ibiza party hotel and four city hotels – Munich, London, Amsterdam and Scandinavia, connected by a circular, glass-bottomed swimming pool on the roof – and the Ikaria wellness hotel, named after the Greek island where people live longer and healthier than anywhere else in the world.” It is a heady global smorgasbord, with little concern for geographical accuracy or architectural vernacular. Germany has been reserved for higher-end occupants – “the second or third homes of your average millionaire” – while Sweden is billed as the pinnacle of exclusivity, featuring 10 “palaces”, whose rooftops are modelled on the upturned hull of a viking ship. They come complete with infinity pools, private beaches and furniture branded with the winged B of Bentley. Kleindienst claims they have all been sold to members of the Gulf states’ ruling families, the last one for 75m dirham (about £15m). Just as Dubai’s ruler, Sheikh Mohammed, gifted one of The World islands to Formula One champion Michael Schumacher in 2006, as a ruse to encourage others to come here, so Kleindienst hopes to use the presence of royals as bait. “We know that where the royals are spending their summer vacation, many other people also want to be,” he says. But would privacy-seeking princes really want to relax anywhere near hundreds of other people holidaying in an Ibiza-themed resort? “One of our buyers could easily afford to buy a whole island of his own,” says Kleindienst, “but he wants to be part of our project so he can experience the snow plaza and enjoy all of the entertainment we will be laying on. We will have a restaurant from every country in Europe, and a different cultural festival each night.” With distances of just a few metres between the islands, it doesn’t feel like a particularly exclusive place. You’ll be able to wave at your neighbouring billionaire across a shallow channel. “We are working on floating landscaping for privacy,” says Kleindienst. “We have already tested floating palm trees.” Trees won’t be the only things bobbing in the water. Given the high premium on land, his firm is developing plans for entire floating islands, beginning with Venice. Gondolas will weave between modern palazzos, set around a swimming pool proportioned to match St Mark’s Square, while underwater bedrooms and restaurants will provide views on to a new coral reef. He says they have already established a coral nursery on one of the islands, and plan to cultivate oyster beds too, with pearl-diving added to the list of attractions on offer. Wading through the murky water today, it is hard to believe the Photoshopped visions of people frolicking among shoals of exotic fish in a crystal-clear lagoon, lounging in their underwater lairs or playing in the snow. Kleindienst says the entire development and its 4,000 bedrooms will be completed in time for the Dubai Expo in 2020, which seems impossibly tight. He insists that most of the Floating Seahorse villas have been sold, promising investors a guaranteed yield of 8% over five years; but these figures are hard to take seriously when current prime residential property yields in Dubai stand at around 5%. Nor might it be of particular encouragement to investors that one of Kleindienst’s structures recently sank following a New Year’s Eve party. For all the hype, industry insiders raise their eyebrows at the idea that The World is back on track. “When you go into these marketing suites, it feels like 2007 all over again,” says Dubai-based architect Sara Anwar, who was involved with Karl Lagerfeld’s plans for a fashion island, Isla Moda, before the financial crisis hit. The project, developed by Dubai Infinity Holdings, was to include a fashion resort, themed residential villas, haute couture boutiques and luxury hospitality facilities, all aimed at ultra-high net worth individuals (or UHNWIs as they are known – an acronym that, when pronounced, sounds appropriately like “unwise”). “Every five minutes a bus would arrive at the sales office full of potential buyers, and people would fly here on their private jets for the most lavish launch parties imaginable,” Anwar says. “Everyone here on the ground had a real belief in what was happening, but there was definitely a sense of skepticism from outsiders when they arrived.” Others dismiss the new plans outright as a financial loser, but Kleindienst’s bullish attitude appears to be rubbing off. After a decade of despair, some other island owners have been buoyed by the company’s efforts. Emirati developer Seven Tides announced in September that it plans to complete a 100-villa resort on one of its 10 islands in the South America cluster by the end of 2018. “This will be the first resort of its kind anywhere on The World,” said the company’s CEO, Abdulla Bin Sulayem. “The design is beautiful, which is important, because if we don’t have a ‘wow’ factor, there’s no point in doing it.” Commenting on the unlikely speed of the project, he added: “When you’re building lots of [similar structures], everything is like Lego,” which doesn’t bode particularly well for the quality of the plans. It’s not the first time Seven Tides has announced its intentions to be the first to have a resort open on The World. In 2009, it promised a scheme of chalets on stilts would be “opening soon” on the islands of Buenos Aires, Bolivia, Argentina, Chile and the Falklands, complete with swimming pools and tennis courts. Nothing has materialised. As if to complete the sense of deja-vu, bringing back a touch of celebrity sparkle, Mean Girls star Lindsay Lohan, who recently relocated to Dubai, has announced that she too is designing her own island on The World. “I have a lot of little projects [in Dubai] because I like to keep busy,” she told a US talkshow in January, describing her expansive range of branded enterprises, from a new makeup line to nightclubs in Athens and Mykonos, and now “Lohan Island”. “I’m out Trump-ing Trump with the name Lohan!” These days there is no sign of The World in the sales office of Nakheel, the government-owned development company that was founded in 2000 to head up the offshore projects. Crossing a bridge over an azure pond, I arrive at their complex of domed buildings set a in lush tropical garden, to be welcomed into a marketing suite beneath a soaring marquee roof recalling a bedouin tent, where polished steel palm trees tower over a model of the Palm Jumeirah. “People ask why we build new land in the sea when we have so much empty desert,” says Mohammed Rashed Bin Dhabeah, Nakheel’s managing director of development, adjusting his crisp white keffiyeh. A vitrine of miniature sports cars stands against one wall of his office, and a signed Lionel Messi football shirt hangs framed on another. “We only have 60km of beach running along the coast of the Emirates, but we have 14 million visitors a year who come here for the beaches. So we needed to create more beach.” It all began with the Palm Jumeirah, an idea credited to Sheikh Mohammed, who is said to have sketched out the form of the trunk and fronds as the most efficient shape to maximise the amount of beachfront. Each frond would be like a street, with a row of properties on either side, backing on to their own stretch of private beach. The novelty shape and the promise of beachfront homes was a winning formula: the plots sold out in two days. Walking up the hard shoulder of the roaring highway of the Palm today (there is no pavement; everyone drives), the feeling is less one of an exclusive private enclave than that of a generic slice of American suburbia. The houses have been packed in cheek by jowl, at three times the original planned density, leaving rows of McMansions looking across at each other between thin strips of stagnant water. In the sales brochures and news reports, this new form of Google Earth urbanism was intoxicating, especially given that much of the intended audience would never see it in reality. The media frenzy generated by the Palm was enough to convince Nakheel to plan a further two palm-shaped islands of even greater size: the Palm Jebel Ali, further south along the coast towards Abu Dhabi, and the gargantuan Palm Deira nearer Dubai’s old town centre, seven and a half times the size of the original. Together, they would add more than 250 miles of coastline to the shores of Dubai, and provide an additional 6,000 hectares of land – an area larger than the whole of Manhattan. In a move that now seems like tempting fate, the Palm Jebel Ali was to feature a halo of calligraphically shaped islands, spelling out the lines of a poem written by Sheikh Mohammed: “Take wisdom only from the wise, / Not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey. / It takes a man of vision to write on water, / Great men rise to great challenges.” In this case, the challenge proved too great. The shape of Jebel Ali was formed, but the project has been on hold ever since. Meanwhile, Palm Deira got as far as the base of the trunk before the rest of the tree was cancelled, its sorry stump since rebranded “Deira Islands”. Caught up in a frenzy of shape-making, before the palms hit the buffers, The World was the obvious next step. “After the success of the Palm Jumeirah, people wanted their own private islands,” says Bin Dhabeah. “The World was a way of creating a place where each person could do their own thing.” On the corridor outside his office hangs a satellite view that shows not only The World and the three palms, but a cacophony of other swirly shapes that fill the entire area of sea between the mainland and the existing islands. There are moon-shaped crescents, cosmic starbursts and wiggling worms, arranged in an indiscriminate muddle, as if someone had spilt a bowl of spaghetti shapes across the map. This is The Universe, an aborted plan for an additional 3,000 hectares of fantasy islands shaped like the Milky Way and the solar system. It was announced in January 2008, just as The World was completed, but was swiftly sucked into the great black hole of the financial crisis, never to be seen again. “We don’t talk about that one,” says the PR, chivvying me out of the office. Sitting at home in Miami, the architect of these crazed visions recalls a time when Nakheel couldn’t have been keener to shout its plans from the rooftops, recounting a rose-tinted era when nothing was deemed too outlandish. “They were totally unfazed by anything,” says Luis Ajamil, president of architecture giant Bermello Ajamil & Partners, a practice whose CV boasts the momentous accomplishment of masterplanning The World and The Universe. “The Universe would have been longer than Miami Beach in its entirety. It even had its own airport, and would have needed 1 or 2 million people to make it successful. They said: ‘So what?’ If you said no to them, it was their trip to say: ‘OK then, we’ll do it.’” Ajamil did manage to bring a little bit of market sense to the madness. Before he got involved, The World had been planned solely with private owners in mind. “It soon turned out that there weren’t 300 people who wanted to buy an island for $30m,” he says, “so we changed the plan and increased the density to make it commercially viable, more like a city without cars. Imagine Venice on steroids.” His team developed a zoning plan, locating the more public, resort-style islands closer to the mainland, while the more exclusive areas for private estates were sited further back towards the Gulf. Antarctica was imagined as a big commercial hub, with rows of seven-storey hotels and a mile-long beach facing Dubai, creating a wall of development that would have essentially blocked the sought-after view of the mainland from the private islands behind. Ajamil says sales really took off when they demonstrated how owners could re-shape their islands, carving coves, inlets and marinas to create more saleable area. “We went from trying to sell a bunch of pancakes to showing people how they could make spaces that could really work commercially. The smart folks figured out that the game was to work with the water, given that the plots of land were so small. You could put buildings on stilts and bring boat slips in underneath them. It was a lot of fun. We did some kick-ass projects.” His practice worked on a number of the early schemes, including a plan to divide Moscow into two linear islands, connected by a five-storey glass box called Red Square, which would have glowed red by night. He also planned to slice the UK landmass in two, connecting the slivers with what he describes as “an abstract interpretation of Tower Bridge”. That wasn’t the only replica icon: “A lot of people were looking at recreating wonders of the world. At one point I counted seven Eiffel Towers.” The whole premise behind The World was fundamentally transformed from being a community of exclusive desert islands, with a villa on each, to thin strips of sand carved, stretched and squeezed to ensure the maximum commercial return. Bermello Ajamil’s design for the UK bears no relation to the outline of Britain, or to its architecture. Instead, it looks like a pair of mating caterpillars, the two spits of land whittled away into long, curling tendrils, upon which dozens of white modernist holiday homes have been packed side by side. The high-density rezoning paved the way for Kleindienst’s plans, which do their best to fill every square inch of land and sea available, creating an atmosphere redolent of the Costa del Sol. The Universe would have only increased the congestion – it was planned at a higher density still. But all of this planned terraforming was facing a more fundamental hurdle: they were running out of sand. “When they started building the first Palm, the dredgers just went out and scoured sand from a few hundred metres around the site and piled it up,” says Ajamil. “But as they built the next palm and The World, there was no sand left nearby. By the time The World was being finished, the ships were going out 20km or more. The costs were getting prohibitive.” And presumably the tangled knots of the Universe would have drastically reduced the value of the existing islands? “Absolutely,” says Ajamil. “But, by then, a lot of The World was already sold.” The speed of the sales, at the height of the bubble, was based on the fact that buyers would readily pay 100% cash up front, based on drawings alone. “You didn’t need to raise capital – that’s why things moved so fast,” he says. “Now it’s a model that requires risk and debt, and a lot of these developers are not equipped for that.” Still, he is optimistic that The World will be inhabited one day. “It will take a different mindset and a bit of focus from the Dubai government, but it’ll happen. There are billions of dollars of sales that have been made. That money is not just going to sit out there for ever.” Unless, that is, those billions have already been swallowed into the sea. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to join the discussion, and explore our archive here
Water flows from a fountain at Reeds Bay Beach park. Every day, cesspools throughout Hawaii send an excess of harmful nutrients pouring into nearshore ocean waters and threaten to infiltrate the freshwater drinking supply. (HOLLYN JOHNSON/Tribune-Herald) KAILUA-KONA — Every day cesspools throughout Hawaii send an excess of harmful nutrients pouring into nearshore ocean waters and threaten to infiltrate the freshwater drinking supply. Hawaii Island is home to tens of thousands of them, representing nearly half of the known cesspools used throughout the state. With a deadline of 2050 to shut down every one of them, the state Department of Health has scheduled informational community meetings in both Kailua-Kona and Hilo to discuss the elevated risk cesspools pose and gather community feedback on the issue. The department will host the Kona meeting from 6-8 p.m. Friday at the West Hawaii Civic Center’s Council Chambers. The Hilo meeting is set for 5-7 p.m. July 25 at University of Hawaii in Hilo. The Department of Health wants first to address threats to human health. “Where there is a somewhat elevated risk is from bacteria in shallow wells,” said Edward Bohlen, deputy attorney general who represents the department’s Wastewater Branch. Bill Kucharski, director of the Hawaii County Department of Environmental Management, said this is a particularly sensitive concern in Keaau. The region is home to 9,300 cesspools and is considered a Priority 2 area by DOH, meaning there are potential impacts to drinking water. When cesspool seepage intermingles with ground water, it can find its way into aquifers drawn on by the county. This is generally less of a concern at deep well sites, which can range between 1,000 and 2,000 feet in depth and supply Hawaii Island with most of its drinking water. However, Kucharski said people in parts of Keaau have shallower drinking wells, some only 100 feet deep or so. Bohlen said he was unaware of any documented cases of illness linked to cesspool contamination of drinking water in Hawaii but that the possibility would remain until the state adequately addresses the problem. And drinking water isn’t the only concern. “The other vector would be people swimming in water where wastewater has come out of cesspools,” Bohlen added. The department has branded places like Hilo Bay, with 8,700 cesspools, and coastal Kailua-Kona, with 6,500 cesspools, Priority 3 areas. Those regions are characterized by cesspools that pose a potential impact to sensitive waters. The issue in Hawaii Island’s major population hubs is more sewage runoff into nearshore waters, carrying with it an excess of nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, nutrient surpluses can cause illness in humans, as well as create algal blooms that produce toxicity fatal to marine life and create dead zones in water bereft of oxygen, rendering them uninhabitable. Perhaps as great a concern as the threats Bohlen mentioned is the fact that septic tanks, the typical alternative to cesspools when sewering isn’t an option, aren’t much better at managing nutrient outflow into nearshore ocean water — home to Hawaii Island’s coral reefs. “The solids are maintaining. You pump those out and they go to a sewage treatment plant, so in that regard (septic tanks) are better,” Kucharski said. “But when you take a look at our concerns for nearshore waters … the septic tank does not deal with the nitrogen and phosphorous loads that are going in much better than cesspools.” Sewering Hawaii County to a meaningful extent would cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and the island’s geology makes wide-scale sewering a dubious proposition. Compared to other islands in the state, Hawaii Island is young, and blue rock and fractured lava are more prevalent than soil. The Legislature passed a bill this year to create a working group, contract a consultant and examine different financial and technological solutions to a statewide problem that is nevertheless Hawaii Island-centric. “It can be very expensive to upgrade cesspools, so we want to make sure we do it in the most cost effective way and without harming homeowners,” said Bohlen, who didn’t mention any specific alternatives but noted identifying those options would be the purpose of the working group. Projections for the average cost to homeowners switching from a cesspool to a septic tank or connecting to the sewer system range between $10,000 and $20,000 per property. Hawaii County has turned to sewage treatment plants to manage wastewater in major population areas like Kona and Hilo. That’s also the plan in Naalehu, with one twist. Instead of discharging treated wastewater that eventually finds its way to the ocean, like what happens at the Kealakehe Wastewater treatment plant, the site in Naalehu will function as a water uptake system. Wastewater will undergo secondary treatment, then the facility will use aerobic ponds and vegetative uptake that removes nitrogen and reduces some of the phosphorous, Kucharski said.
TOKYO, June 25 (Xinhua) -- A sea-based protest was held in Okinawa Prefecture on Monday by residents demonstrating against the central government's plans to reclaim land from the sea to build a replacement facility for the U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma. Around 70 canoes and a number of other small vessels were used by the demonstrators who faced off with patrol boats from the Japan Coast Guard, according to local media reports. The demonstration happened in the pristine and environmentally delicate Henoko coastal area of Nago where the new U.S. base is expected to be relocated to. Currently the base is located in the densely populated Ginowan district. Calls from local residents and officials have become more vociferous of late, with Okinawans wanting the base moved off the island or out of Japan altogether. The protesters were holding placards saying "Don't build a U.S. base here!" and "This area and its beautiful sea must be protected." The central government began constructing seawall in April last year, triggering a number of protests from locals who wish to see their base-hosting burdens lifted and the local environment protected. Okinawa hosts the bulk of U.S. military facilities in Japan, yet the tiny sub-tropical island accounts for just a small fraction of Japan's total landmass. As well as shouldering the majority of U.S. bases and being victims of U.S. base-linked workers' criminal activities, which span rape and murder, driving under the influence of alcohol, as well as a steady flow of accidents and mishaps involving U.S. military aircraft, the new location for the base has an extremely delicate ecosystem unique to Okinawa that the locals desperately want to protect. The overall plans for the new base involve 157 hectares of land being reclaimed from pristine waters off the Henoko area and the building of a V-shaped runway. Officials in Okinawa have stated that the reclamation work runs contrary to the national biodiversity strategy of Japan as it is damaging an ecosystem unique to the region. Environmentalists have also voiced concerns about the materials used for the reclamation work introducing invasive species to the region. Experts, having surveyed the coral reef at the bottom of the ocean near the tip of one of the seawalls, concluded that the Porities lutea coral, which is part of the reef and just 20 meters away from the tip of the seawall, has a high likelihood of being destroyed by the construction work. Prefectural authorities in Okinawa have also claimed that the construction work is legally infringing on the rights granted to local fisherman in the coastal region. Okinawa Gov. Takeshi Onaga, a staunch opponent of the central government's plans to relocate the base and an advocate for lightening the base-hosting burdens of local residents, said he plans to retract the approval given to the state's landfill plan by his predecessor. This move will almost certainly see the local and state governments return to their legal jousting over the issue. TOKYO, June 25 (Xinhua) -- A sea-based protest was held in Okinawa Prefecture on Monday by residents demonstrating against the central government's plans to reclaim land from the sea to build a replacement facility for the U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma. Around 70 canoes and a number of other small vessels were used by the demonstrators who faced off with patrol boats from the Japan Coast Guard, according to local media reports. The demonstration happened in the pristine and environmentally delicate Henoko coastal area of Nago where the new U.S. base is expected to be relocated to. Currently the base is located in the densely populated Ginowan district. Calls from local residents and officials have become more vociferous of late, with Okinawans wanting the base moved off the island or out of Japan altogether. The protesters were holding placards saying "Don't build a U.S. base here!" and "This area and its beautiful sea must be protected." The central government began constructing seawall in April last year, triggering a number of protests from locals who wish to see their base-hosting burdens lifted and the local environment protected. Okinawa hosts the bulk of U.S. military facilities in Japan, yet the tiny sub-tropical island accounts for just a small fraction of Japan's total landmass. As well as shouldering the majority of U.S. bases and being victims of U.S. base-linked workers' criminal activities, which span rape and murder, driving under the influence of alcohol, as well as a steady flow of accidents and mishaps involving U.S. military aircraft, the new location for the base has an extremely delicate ecosystem unique to Okinawa that the locals desperately want to protect. The overall plans for the new base involve 157 hectares of land being reclaimed from pristine waters off the Henoko area and the building of a V-shaped runway. Officials in Okinawa have stated that the reclamation work runs contrary to the national biodiversity strategy of Japan as it is damaging an ecosystem unique to the region. Environmentalists have also voiced concerns about the materials used for the reclamation work introducing invasive species to the region. Experts, having surveyed the coral reef at the bottom of the ocean near the tip of one of the seawalls, concluded that the Porities lutea coral, which is part of the reef and just 20 meters away from the tip of the seawall, has a high likelihood of being destroyed by the construction work. Prefectural authorities in Okinawa have also claimed that the construction work is legally infringing on the rights granted to local fisherman in the coastal region. Okinawa Gov. Takeshi Onaga, a staunch opponent of the central government's plans to relocate the base and an advocate for lightening the base-hosting burdens of local residents, said he plans to retract the approval given to the state's landfill plan by his predecessor. This move will almost certainly see the local and state governments return to their legal jousting over the issue.
PORTLAND, Ore. — Farmers rushed to save their livelihoods as a wildfire roared through vast Oregon wheat fields Thursday and crushed their hopes at the peak of what was expected to be one of the most bountiful harvests in years. Farmers used water tanks on the backs of pickup trucks and tractors to battle flames whipping across fields for the third straight day. One man was found dead near his charred tractor Wednesday, apparently overrun as he tried to clear a strip of land to protect a neighbor’s property. Farmers who grow tens of thousands of acres of soft, white wheat typically bound for Asia said they are confronting walls of fire up to 30 feet (9 meters) high and wind so strong that it tosses embers ahead of the fire’s leading edge. The conditions threaten farmers working to stop the blaze from reaching the wheat. “It’s been day after day after day of pretty horrendous winds and then the fire creates its own wind,” Alan von Borstel, who has battled the flames with his son, said by phone. “As the fire gets closer, you actually start to feel threatened, and if it gets too close, we realize we can’t do it, (and) we get the hell out of Dodge.” Wheat farmers like von Borstel always have water tanks loaded on the back of trucks during the hot, dry summers. When a fire breaks out, they race to the scene alongside professional fire crews. If they have time, the farmers mow down standing wheat to slow the fire’s progress and come behind firetrucks to tamp down flames with their water. But their most important job is called “disking.” They use a tractor attachment to till the wheat into the soil, creating a gap up to 150 feet (46 meters) wide between the advancing flames and the rest of the field. That gives firefighters a chance to get ahead of the blaze. “Without the help of the farmers, this thing wouldn’t get stopped,” von Borstel said. “There are lots of us out there. We look out for each other.” Von Borstel’s crops so far are untouched. But his cousin lost just over a square mile on Wednesday, and the fire is just a few miles from his home. The blaze about 85 miles (137 kilometers) east of Portland has scorched nearly 80 square miles (207 square kilometers) of wheat fields and grasslands since igniting Tuesday. Authorities on Thursday designated it as the top firefighting priority nationwide. It was the largest of more than 200 wildfires across Oregon, many sparked by lightning. Other fires dotted states throughout the drought-stricken Western United States. A man’s body was found Thursday near a homeless camp inside the perimeter of another fire that burned earlier in the week in southwestern Oregon. It wasn’t clear if he died before or during the blaze, and an autopsy was planned. In wheat country, Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said the fire may have been intentionally set and the state will help investigate. Firefighters were trying to protect homes and other structures in the hardest-hit areas. Authorities have told residents of 900 houses to evacuate or be ready to go as the flames spread rapidly. The wheat at risk isn’t good for making bread and is primarily shipped to Asian markets — particularly Japan and Korea — for use in ramen noodles, steamed breads and flatbreads. The crop this year looked particularly bountiful, with farmers estimating they might get 15 or 20 bushels more per acre than the average 55. The wheat would normally be harvested within the next 10 days. Each crop takes two years to grow because farmers leave half the land fallow to improve environmental conditions and reduce erosion. “There’s some years when you wouldn’t mind your wheat crop burning, but this isn’t one of them. I don’t know how much crop has burned, and it’s still burning,” said Tom McCoy, who lost 300 acres overnight. He estimates the lost value at about $91,000. He’s insured, but this year’s crop looked so good he worries he might not have had enough insurance and will still wind up with less than he would have gotten on the market. “There has been tens of thousands of acres of cropland lost,” said Logan Padget, a fifth-generation wheat farmer who was battling the flames Thursday. “I’ve heard that some people have lost literally everything. … You’ve got two years’ worth of effort that’s coming down to a two-week harvest, and all your time and care and effort for the land is wasted.” Associated Press writer Steven DuBois in Portland contributed to this report.
Updated February 13, 2018 15:59:38 A bushfire in remote parts of South Australia and the Northern Territory has burnt through an area larger than some countries — but it seems not that many people have actually noticed. The fire started near Ernabella in SA's APY Lands on Thursday, and has now blackened about 125,000 hectares, or 1,250 square kilometres, of pastoral land and scrub. To put that in context, that's more than four times bigger than the Maldives, and almost twice as big as Singapore, Bahrain or Tonga. Fanned by high temperatures and strong winds, the giant fire has also crossed into the Northern Territory. Country Fire Service staff officer Peter Ikonomopoulos said despite the fire's size, there had been no reports of property damage in the isolated outback region. He said Indigenous-led volunteer brigades were the first on the scene. "CFS crews from Ernabella, Amata and Mimili responded to the fire near Kenmore Park," Mr Ikonomopoulos said. "Due to the ferocity and volume of the fire, more crews were called from Coober Pedy, Roxby Downs, Mintabie and Marla, to provide assistance." Additional personnel from Port Augusta are also on their way to provide relief, police said. Mr Ikonomopoulos said contractors from the APY Lands and Ceduna had supplied machinery to put in earth breaks to protect communities. The CFS hopes favourable winds and the possibility of rain will cause the fire to burn back on itself, easing the threat. But while police have said there is currently no danger to the Ernabella community, the CFS said firefighters were battling hard ahead of a wind change that could fan the flames in the direction of Ernabella later this week. Police have asked tourists and service provides to avoid travelling on the Victory Downs and Mulga Park road because of smoke. The road travels from the Stuart Highway along the border, through the Victory Downs and Mulga Park cattle stations, past Mount Conner to the Lasseter Highway and Yulara. Topics: community-development, agribusiness, bushfire, fires, disasters-and-accidents, ernabella-0872, port-augusta-5700, sa, alice-springs-0870 First posted February 12, 2018 16:19:17
Sihanoukville, a seaside haven on the southwest coast of Cambodia, is hardly a city. It has long been known as "Kampong Som," a quiet and very green place full of massive old hardwood trees and mangoes fed by bountiful rains. It is a long and narrow town, and the built-up parts skirt a gorgeous natural shoreline: 14 km stretch from the container port in a sensuous curve of evergreen-shaded powdery white beaches, broken occasionally by rocky, tree-shrouded headlands. In the middle of town, a pier serves tourists eager to reach charming and unspoiled island resorts only an hour away. Heading south from the Serendipity pier, the beach becomes wider and the evergreens grow taller. The beaches sweep out and in again, dangling like a sunbather's long and lazy blonde tresses -- all the way to a quiet spot called Otres, a natural beach playground. There are few main roads in of Sihanoukville, and only one narrow two-lane highway links the town to Phnom Penh, the capital city 220 km to the northeast. But these days, that little highway is crowded with heavy trucks, buses and cars. By the year 2023, a new four lane road will be constructed with expertise and cash, largely a gift from China. Only one year ago, Sihanoukville was a much quieter city than it is today. One could drive down the main street, Ekareach, on a week night and encounter only a few cars and motorcycles. Now, new white vans, tourist buses, and SUVs full of Chinese tourists and migrant workers shuttle up and down streets at all hours of the day and night. Aside from this busy movement of humanity, large-scale construction works are in process along the coast and across the whole town. The construction brings huge lumbering cement trucks into town after visiting one of dozens of new cement plants, most of them crowded along the main highway #4 to Phnom Penh, the country's capital. During the past year, Chinese investors have arrived in droves, quickly buying up large chunks of real estate. Many apartment dwellers were faced with evictions. Long-established tourist businesses have shut suddenly due to impossible rents and forced eviction. This sudden influx and displacement, along with the aggravation of reckless, hurried traffic and dustier roads, has spurred many expats to leave town en masse. The twenty-something backpacker crowd has yet to disappear entirely, but since most of them desire fresh air and clear seas, the majority now hop ferries to idyllic islands only an hour away because cheap lodgings are no longer available in town. Many expats and youngsters who have refused to leave have taken refuge in a small village of little hotels and bungalows 10 kilometers south of town, right behind Otres Beach. The most striking effect of the mass Chinese invasion is impossible to ignore: hundreds of Cambodian family-owned businesses have been forced to close down. Most of these people left for the provinces or other towns immediately after the land they were renting was scooped up by big-spending Chinese investors. Of course, there are plenty of new job opportunities for locals, but most are limited to service roles at the casino hotels, construction helpers, or drivers of big trucks. A lucky few locals work in the real estate market, and many of them are police! The Chinese are building dozens of edifices simultaneously. Almost all are copies of each other: towering condo-hotels and box-like concrete slab casinos. They are going up right beside each other along the beach road and on major streets across town. Virtually everything but the cement and sand is imported by sea from China. The imports include: glass, steel girders, floor tiles, cut stone, heavy trucks, diggers, earth-movers and the ubiquitous towering yellow steel construction cranes. Most of the skilled engineers and workers are Chinese, too. Some Indian coders have been contracted to set up computer systems. Nepali workers and security guards have been sighted at the casinos. But few local Cambodian laborers actually work on the construction sites. They are not considered skilled or hard-working enough for the Chinese. The Chinese work fast: several projects will be completed by year-end, having broken ground less than twelve months ago. Rents and land prices have tripled and quadrupled over the past two years, making business impossible for smaller players. Passenger jets arrive daily to Sihanoukville's modest airport, ferrying groups of Chinese tourists eager to enjoy their package holidays. But it appears that the majority of arrivals from China, at least for the moment, are not yet all tourists. Alongside tourists come rich investors, skilled and ordinary workers, and quite a few small-scale entrepreneurs who want to open a hair salon or restaurant. Sometimes, a whole group of young Chinese men arrive, destined for employment at an "online casino" -- live-dealing across video-chat networks. Most of the video-gamblers are located in China proper, where it is illegal to gamble in the flesh anywhere. A few very rich Chinese men have come to live here. Some Cambodians who have had a sold a lot of the land are now driving Rolls Royces and Hummers alongside them, too. Speculation is rife as to the true source of the cash influx, and many cynics attribute it to money laundering networks from various black and gray businesses across China, and even from as far away as the United States. Some others scoff and believe the money is coming directly from the government of China itself, which is unlikely and improbable. The actual sources of the money seem to be of little concern to the central government of Cambodia. That devil-may-care attitude has caused problems: the provincial governor of Sihanoukville, Mr. Yun Min, issued an official report to the Council of Ministers of Cambodia in January of 2018. The governor complained of illegal activities like kidnapping and civil disorder instigated by Chinese gangsters in the city of Sihanoukville. Yet his report has not deterred construction, nor has it limited the flood of new arrivals. In the summer of 2017, the State Council of China issued an edict banning its citizens from engaging in foreign investment in overseas gambling businesses. However, as Communist Party edicts often go, they are not always clearly defined or enforced. So, why exactly might the Chinese government choose to overlook the case of Sihanoukville? First, it goes without saying that current casino-condo developments in Sihanoukville do not accord with the current Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as formally approved by the Chinese state. The official aim of the BRI is to link China with all neighboring Eurasian states by building roads, train links and bridges. But there is another quite obvious motive that does accord with Chinese government policy. Sihanoukville creates a new link in the chain of global ports that China has dubbed "the 21st-century Maritime Silk Road Strategy" (21世纪海上丝绸之路). The fledgling container port in Sihanoukville is growing, and a new port is planned for Stueng Hav fishing village, several kilometers up the coast to the northeast. The existing container port already serves as a convenient drop-off point for equipment and raw materials and Chinese imports. Already, Sihanoukville port serves cruise-ship visitors, whose numbers are expected to multiply after the new and larger hotels open soon. Yet there is more to the "Maritime Silk Road" than meets the eye. Sihanoukville port is a quiet, seemingly out-of-the-way spot. However, it presents a prime strategic location for operating a military outpost at the top of the South China Sea. Cambodia is the only nation in southeast Asia with a wide-open door to the Chinese. Next door, Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia are completely out of bounds for the Chinese military. Direct foreign investment by the Chinese in these nations is also much more strictly regulated than in Cambodia. On June 18, it was announced that the Chinese government awarded a US$130 million aid package to the Cambodian military after a meeting between visiting Chinese Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe and Cambodian Lieutenant General Mao Sophan. Defense Ministry spokesman General Chhum Sucheat explained that General Wei Fenghe said that the Chinese gift was intended to mark 60 years of good diplomatic relations between the two nations. Relations are very cozy. The Chinese state is being driven by the current leadership to expand its global political influence and power. This drive seems to be the new raison d'être for China's existence: a once reclusive and closed state has opened its arms to enfold the globe. Cambodia is a ready partner, and so, Sihanoukville has suddenly become a frenzy of unregulated investment and construction. This close coziness of elites has left the public wondering at the existence of any sort of central plan. Nothing has been shared with anyone at the local level. New projects are announced first in Phnom Penh and often nobody in Sihanoukville knows about any details until permits for construction must be bought. Little or no zoning regulation is effectively in place under the jurisdiction of the provincial government of Sihanoukville. Instead, questions of zoning tend to reflect previous traditions of legislation; or, more sadly, whatever the bargaining between big players can lead to: examples of bent and broken rules are now evident in the shape of the massive "Blue Bay Condo," which is now almost finished on Independence Beach. On the beaches, all land officially belongs to the state, and no construction is permitted unless it is approved as a "public-private entity" by the central government. Yet again, there are no apparent limits upon the amount of land up for grabs. Here's another recent example: on June 20 a celebration was held in Phnom Penh promoting yet another new Sihanoukville project called "Wisney World." This mammoth leisure resort and theme park project will cost US$1 billion. But the provincial governor of Sihanoukville claims to have no knowledge of the newly announced project. Planning, if there is any, seems to be taking place entirely according to the deals that Cambodia's urban elite is willing and able to entertain with their wealthier Chinese friends. Sihanoukville presents a sociological conundrum: is the city still an integral part of the sovereign state of Cambodia? Is the PRC committed to put over nothing less than a grandiose 21st-century neo-colonial take over? At present, it appears so. The metamorphosis has been sudden and shocking. The sense of neo-colonialism is quite uncanny: the vast majority of the newly arriving Chinese are displacing the existing population rather than merging and assimilating with them. That upsetting reality is the critical element at play in the current scenario. Of course, many of the town's Cambodian residents were itinerant in the first place. So, does it matter much if the local folk have been pushed back to their home provinces? Curiously, the Chinese influx are either totally unaware or entirely careless of their displacing effect. The Chinese appear oblivious to anything but Chinese things, and they exude a sort of naive yet brash ignorance, failing to see that Cambodians have their own social customs, ways of life, food or religious culture. So, the vast majority of Chairman Mao's great-grandchildren remain insulated and largely disinterested about getting to know anyone outside their familiar cultural, economic and linguistic domain. Nevertheless, Sihanoukville stands ready to serve China's tourists, gamblers and the PRC government's desire to command the South China Sea. It is quite the devil's bargain, but nobody has shown much fear yet. However, the fact remains plain: ordinary Cambodians and the citizens of Sihanoukville are more than a trifle skeptical. Some feel offended and shoved aside, as if by a rude and unruly tourist. Nowhere on Earth is a city so vulnerable to the bulk economic force of outsiders. This neo-colonial phenomenon is very real and, at present, wholly irreversible for the little seaside town of Sihanoukville. Read Next: OPINION: Weighing the Costs of Cambodia's Rental to China TNL Editor: Nick Aspinwall
President Donald Trump boasted his inauguration would have an "unbelievable, perhaps record-setting turnout." But aerial shots of the National Mall from President Barack Obama’s 2009 inauguration and today show that isn’t likely. Here’s an image taken at about 11:30 AM ET in 2009: And here’s what it looks like today as of 11:04 AM ET. And here they are side-by-side: Federal and local agencies have estimated that anywhere from 700,000 to 900,000 people will be in Washington, DC, today for Trump’s inauguration. That’s roughly half the number of people who attended Obama’s inauguration in 2009. It’s also less than the turnout for Obama’s 2013 inauguration, which drew 1 million people. But experts caution it will be weeks before we know the final count; in the meantime, take all estimates with a grain of salt. Allison Puccioni, an imagery analyst, told me she helped estimate the number of people in attendance at Obama’s inauguration in 2009. To measure the density of people, she used satellite imagery, making a 90-square grid area of the Capitol and National Mall. A few days later, the DC government, along with several federal agencies and media organizations, released official estimates that weren’t too far off from Puccioni’s 1.8 million using ticket information from turnstiles and other sources for their count. Charles Seife, a professor of journalism at New York University and mathematician, has written about the perils of counting crowds. He says that using satellite imagery is one of the best ways to measure the size of a crowd if it’s not a strictly ticketed event, but warned it’s not a perfect tool. “The best way is by aerial photography ... take pictures and count heads, but even that is fraught,” said Seife. “Pictures are taken at particular times, and [crowd] density may change over time. You’re not going to see everybody. People will be popping in and out of buildings; there are people under trees — you can get a pretty sizable estimate, but it’s not perfectly accurate.” Estimates of political events can be particularly contentious, cautioned Steve Doig, a professor of journalism at Arizona State University who has been estimating crowd sizes for many years. “No one should be astonished when their claim is ignored, reviled, and claimed to be fake news,” he said.
Rayong – Police have inspected a waste disposal pit in Rayong province where they also discovered that the water in a nearby waterway had been contaminated. Local residents in Pluak Daeng district told the police about the industrial waste disposal pit and how the unpleasant odor affected their lives. The pit, which is 40 meters wide, 100 meters long and 15 meters deep, has reportedly been used as a dump site. It is big enough that it can contain up to 60 tons of discarded waste. The disposal site has contaminated the adjacent waterway which flows directly into Dok Krai Reservoir. Surrounding communities rely on the water in the reservoir for household consumption. Deputy National Police Chief, Pol Gen Wirachai Songmetta led a group of police and other officials from related agencies to inspect the pit this week. They found toxic waste buried in the ground. Samples of soil and water taken at the site will be sent to the Department of Medical Sciences to be examined for dangerous chemicals. Once identified, those involved in the illegal disposal of toxic waste will be prosecuted according to the law.
Whether it was a family day out at the beach, complete with prehistoric equivalent of a bucket and spade, we’ll never know, but one thing is for sure: about 13,000 years ago a little band of humans were pottering about on a shore in western Canada. Researchers have unearthed 29 footprints in a layer of sediment on the shoreline of Calvert Island in British Columbia. Between 11,000 and 14,000 years ago, as the world was coming towards the end of the last ice age, the sea level there was 2m to 3m lower than today. While it is not clear quite how many humans were responsible for the tracks, the team said there are at least three different sizes of footprints, including one set that appeared to belong to a child. “We were actively searching for archaeological sites along this lower shoreline when we came across the footprints. It is likely the tracks were left in an area that was just above the high tide line 13,000 years ago,” said Dr Duncan McLaren, first author of the research from the University of Victoria in British Columbia and the Hakai Institute on Calvert Island. Writing in the journal Plos One, the team describe how they began excavations on the island in 2014, noting that nearby there were shell-containing man-made rubbish dumps, or middens, which dated to up to 6,100 years ago, as well as chipped stone tools and manmade arrangements of stone boulders on the seashore. “This site has a large, protected beach, which we felt was likely to have attracted people to it for many millennia. As sea level has been relatively stable in the region over the last 14,000 years, we reasoned that this area had potential for very old archaeological remains,” said McLaren. The first human footprint was unearthed 60cm below the surface of the current beach, pressed into a layer of brown clay and filled with black sand and gravel. Fortunately, small pieces of wood were discovered in the heel of the print, and were radiocarbon-dated to just over 13,000 years ago. The team returned during 2015 and 2016 to carry out further excavations, uncovering another 28 footprints. In some cases it was possible to see the impressions of individual toes and arches of the feet. Measurements of 18 of the tracks revealed they were made by at least three different individuals. “We had to excavate very carefully and slowly, which was difficult as we had to race the tide,” said McLaren. McLaren said the finds helped to unpick a longstanding conundrum. In the last ice age, Siberia and Alaska were connected by a large land bridge in an area known as Beringia, while Canada was covered in ice sheets.“The basic question that many archaeologists ask is: ‘How did people get from Beringia to the area south of Canada during the last ice age?’” said McLaren. The new research adds weight to the idea that humans moved along glacier-free areas of land along the coast, between the ice and the sea – areas known to have provided a refuge for various plants and animals. “It suggests that people were using watercraft, and thriving and exploring coastal areas very early on,” McLaren said. Prof Nick Ashton, curator of Palaeolithic and Mesolithic collections at the British Museum, who has worked on the ancient Happisburgh hominid footprints in Norfolk, welcomed the findings. “This is an important discovery that has implications for the earliest colonisation of America,” he said. “It supports the idea that the first peopling of the Americas was from eastern Asia at a time of lower sea levels, when the landmasses were larger, but probably with the assistance of sea-faring vessels. The footprints provide a very tangible link to the first Americans.”
The militant group Sinai Province is the most active insurgent group in Egypt. It has been linked to a number of deadly attacks, mostly in North Sinai, but also in the capital, Cairo, and other provinces. The Islamist group, initially known as Ansar Beit al-Maqdis (Supporters of Jerusalem), has been active in the Sinai Peninsula since 2011. It changed its name after it pledged allegiance to the so-called Islamic State (IS) group in November 2014. In 2015, Sinai Province staged a series of attacks against the army, whose scale and complexity indicated the possibility of closer coordination with the IS leadership in Syria. Sinai Province is thought to be aiming to take control of the Sinai Peninsula in order to turn it into an Islamist province run by IS. The number of active Sinai Province members is believed to be between 1,000 and 1,500. It has expanded its operations outside Sinai by creating cells in some governorates, including Cairo and Giza. These cells have claimed several attacks, including one on a security building in the northern province of Dakahliya in December 2013, which killed at least 15 people and injured over 100. The group's operations have also reached the Western Desert, an area popular with tourists for its oases and rock formations, but which has also become a militant hideout due to its proximity to volatile Libya. State of emergency Sinai Province has been operating mainly in North Sinai, which has been under a state of emergency since October 2014 when 33 security personnel were killed in an attack claimed by the group. The then Egyptian prime minister, Ibrahim Mehleb, described the army's confrontation with Sinai Province as a "state of war". North Sinai is thinly populated and broadly underdeveloped, with some of the local population feeling marginalised from the government's investment programme on the mainland. The sense of disconnect is seen as helping fuel a level of support for the militants there. The border with Israel and the Gaza Strip has been a scene of tension over the past few years. The Egyptian authorities have created a buffer zone, demolishing houses and digging a trench to prevent smuggling between Egypt and Gaza - which they say is a source of weapons for the militants. In September 2015, the Egyptian army launched a large-scale military campaign against militant groups in North Sinai. The ongoing Operation The Martyr's Right targets sites mainly in Rafah, Arish and Sheikh Zuweid, all towns in northern areas of the peninsula. As part of the offensive, the army pumped water from the Mediterranean Sea into the tunnels along the Gaza border. Sinai Province started by attacking Israel with rockets, but after the removal of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi in 2013 it focused on Egypt's security services, killing dozens of soldiers. It has been involved in suicide bombings, drive-by shootings, assassinations and beheadings. In July 2015, the group said it had attacked an Egyptian naval vessel in the Mediterranean with a missile fired from the shore - a worrying development for shipping in the region. After the launch of the military campaign in North Sinai in September 2015, the group changed its strategy again by carrying out frequent small-scale bombings and hit and run attacks rather than intermittent "spectaculars". A survey conducted by London-based Al-Araby al-Jadid news website said the group had carried out more than 31 attacks in various areas across Sinai within just a two-week period in March 2016. Sinai Province has developed a media production operation, and has published a host of propaganda videos online. One entitled The Soldiers' Harvest and released in September 2015 featured several attacks the group said it carried out against security personnel. These included shooting policemen in the street, sniping at army soldiers, and targeting military vehicles with explosive devices. Another video released in March 2016 allegedly showed training camps in a desert area where members of the group received combat training. In other videos, the group has urged citizens to avoid cooperating with the authorities, especially by joining the army and police. In some of its films, the group has softened its tone towards the Muslim Brotherhood, who it previously criticized for adopting "infidel democracy" and joining the political process. In a video released just few days before the fifth anniversary of the 25 January 2011 revolution, Sinai Province called on what it described as "supporters of peacefulness" - a reference to the Muslim Brotherhood - to rise up against President Abdul Fattah al-Sisi. BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world. You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook .
ST. GEORGE — Thousands of acres of land near Bryce Canyon National Park could soon be part of a massive coal mine expansion, but environmental groups are continuing to fight against it. Alton Coal Development’s plan to expand its tract in Kane County could increase the coal mine by 3,581 acres, which includes 2,305 acres of land administered by the Bureau of Land Management. The expansion also supports the Trump administration’s “priorities of energy independence and being a good neighbor to local communities,” according to a press release from the BLM. “Alton Coal is an economic engine that provides good paying jobs that benefit the entire region,” U.S. Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah, said. “I’m grateful for Secretary (of the Interior Ryan) Zinke’s leadership and vision for making domestic energy production a priority again.” In the BLM’s final environmental impact statement for the Alton Coal tract expansion, which was released earlier this month, the agency pointed to job growth and economic improvement as positive impacts of the possible expansion. It could add 100 new jobs for mine workers, as well as 240-480 jobs that could be created indirectly at grocery stores, retail stores and fuel providers in the area. “Alton Coal provides family sustaining wage jobs that are needed in our county and has provided some 30 jobs to date with the ability to expand as well as the additional indirect trucking jobs,” Kane County Commissioner Dirk Clayson said. “This plays a vital role in our economy.” If the coal mine is expanded to the size requested by Alton Coal, nearly 45 million tons of coal could be extracted from the land. However, the BLM’s preferred alternative would reduce the amount of extractable coal to just over 30 million tons. While expanding the mine may add jobs to the region, environmentalists argue expanding the mine would negatively impact the experience for visitors at Bryce Canyon National Park, which lies less than ten miles away from the mine expansion proposal. “A lot of the values of Bryce that include the night skies, air quality, visibility, the sounds and the sense of being in a special place where there are not huge numbers of coal trucks and industrialization nearby are very important,” said Dave Nimkin, director of the southwest region of the National Parks Conservation Association. The BLM’s environmental impact study concluded that the amount of light from the expanded coal mine at night would be nearly negligible, but Nimkin said any light at night would impact the night sky over Bryce Canyon. The famous dark skies over Bryce Canyon allow visitors to see 7,500 stars on a moonless night, according to the National Park Service. “Every effort needs to be made to reduce light pollution over Bryce Canyon,” Nimkin said. He said the large number of jobs that could come from the mine shouldn’t be minimized, but if the coal mine impacts Bryce Canyon National Park, it could hurt the “expansive number of jobs” that is currently provided through the National Park Service or through the tourism industry. Another concern Nimkin has about the coal mine expansion is whether there will be enough demand in Utah or the United States for the coal produced from the mine as renewable energy sources continue to decrease the need for coal. “I’m not an economist, so we can’t speculate about what the future market is for the amount of coal that will be mined out of this site, but I’m really wondering if the local or domestic market for coal can absorb all of that and if it can be profitable to export it to Asia. Do we really need to be impacting one of these incredible natural resources for not domestic use of coal but for export to international markets?” What’s next? The decision to expand the coal mine now rests with officials from the BLM, who will issue a decision in no less then 30 days from Friday. There are several alternatives listed within the environmental impact study, including not accepting the mine expansion application or reducing the size of the mine expansion. Meanwhile, environmental groups like the National Parks Conservation Association and the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance will continue to express their concerns about the expansion. “We have about a million-and-a-half supporters and members from across the country who regard Bryce Canyon as a natural wonder and they entrust us to work with them and work on their behalf to protect these places and these basic intrinsic values that are so important,” Nimkin said. “We take that responsibility very seriously.” Email: sricks@stgnews.com Twitter: @STGnews | @SpencerRicks Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2018, all rights reserved. One fact is you are not a republican because a republican would not tell a business owner how to run their business. #2 You never answered the first question.. What gives you the right to tell a business owner how to run his business? your’e the one doing all the crying mr low information rino! I’ll be waiting for a legitimate answer and not your crybaby “because i don’t like it” line! Do you also tell your neighbors how they should landscape their property, are you really that much of a no-life control freak? And please remember you’re the only one doing any crying around here you triggered californian fool! No, DRT, he’s right…it’s about dollars. It’s about money changing hands, and business being able to steamroll over citizens. And he’s right, its about control…and Guv Herbie LOVES that control. We keep giving business all these tax breaks, and the businesses stick around just until the tax break expires…then they move on. WalMart has done that for decades, build by a city border, get a tax break, then move to the other city when the current tax break expires. “In its 2017 Annual Energy Outlook, the U.S Energy Information Administration (EIA) noted that the move away from coal-fired electricity production will likely continue. The authors pointed out that, according to EIA’s base scenario, electricity production from renewable resources will surpass that of coal by 2030. In addition, labor productivity gains in coal production will further reduce employment in the industry. However, Gascon and Crews noted there are two areas worthy of optimism:
Thousands of demonstrators gathered Saturday on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial and lined the frozen-over Reflecting Pool to rally for women’s rights, urge women to run for public office and call on citizens to fully engage on issues from sexual assault and racial equality to immigrant protections and gun violence. The Women’s March on Washington was one of many such protests taking place in hundreds of cities and towns across the nation. People in the crowd were upbeat and blinking into the bright, sunny day, with temperatures soaring into the high 50s. Many said they were encouraged by recent Democratic electoral wins in Alabama, where black women were instrumental in electing the state’s first Democratic senator since 1992, and in Virginia, where a record number of women won state legislative office. The rally, which took place hours after the government shutdown that began at midnight, was organized to rekindle the activism and civic participation ignited by the massive Women’s March on Washington held the day after President Trump’s inauguration last year. Organizers said they hope to build on efforts that have pushed women’s issues to the forefront during the politically chaotic year since Trump took office. [Clad in pink and vowing to vote, activists around the globe flood streets for another Women’s March] That message was delivered repeatedly by a number of speakers, including top Democratic leaders, many of whom remained in Washington because of the shutdown. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) led more than a dozen Democratic lawmakers on the stage and told the marchers they had “transformed the world.” “Your truth is never more important than now,” she said. Pelosi pointed out that many more people had turned out for last year’s march than had attended Trump’s inauguration, and she said the president deserves an F for his first year in office. Trump, at the White House, weighed in on the marches: “Beautiful weather all over our great country, a perfect day for all Women to March,” he tweeted. “Get out there now to celebrate the historic milestones and unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months. Lowest female unemployment in 18 years!” At the rally, there were few Trump supporters to be found. On the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, protesters held up a sign that spelled out “Impeach#45” on one side and “Narcissist” on the other. Another carried a sign that referenced a villain and heroine in the Harry Potter series: “When Voldemort is president we need a nation of Hermiones.” Others made the coming fall elections their focus, proclaiming “Blue tsunami coming in 2018” and “Grab ’em by the midterms.” Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), often mentioned as a potential 2020 presidential candidate, also addressed the crowd. “It is women who are holding our democracy together in these dangerous times,” she said. Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) drew cheers when he criticized Republican congressional leaders and Trump. “ I am sure that if Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan and the president were women, we would not be in the middle of a government shutdown right now,” Beyer said. “Please run! Run smart! Run hard!” he urged the crowd. Last year’s march “was a rallying cry for a lot of women who wanted their voices to be heard,” said Emily Patton, a spokeswoman for the Women’s March. “This year, we really want to show support for women who are running for office and to encourage more women, women of color and those in the LGBT community, to run for office, to register to vote, to be more civically engaged.” Lauren Owensby, 51, a Sterling, Va., mother with five daughters, said she has a “house full of feminists” who have been on fire since Trump was elected. She brought two of her daughters to the march, as well as her mother, “an activist for 60 years.” The federal contractor said her community went into high gear last year. “After Trump was elected, you have never seen so many people come out of their suburban doors and say they want to get involved,” she said. There have been coffees, cocktail parties, letter writing — all aimed at opposing Trump and helping get women and Democrats elected in Virginia. “Women are working, raising families and resisting,” Owensby said. “We don’t read books. We don’t watch movies anymore. We don’t have any time.” Dilcia M. Molina held up a sign in Spanish calling for the protection of immigrant women. She is a health program manager at a D.C. clinic that works with immigrants. “We want to demonstrate that immigrant women have a right to live without violence, without ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement] looking for them,” she said. “We all immigrated for some reason, because of violence in our countries, because of poverty.” Judy Glaven, 57, brought the same “Be Brave Choose Love” poster she marched with last year. It is covered with tape because she has taken it to so many demonstrations over the past year. “Last year I was in shock and depressed. Now I feel determined. I am going to keep working at this,” said the molecular cell biologist from the Mount Pleasant neighborhood of Washington. She said that since last year’s march, she has met with senators and representatives, organized her neighbors, and gone to dozens of protests. “There is not a day that goes by that I don’t do something,” she said. Victor Udoewa, a technology policy adviser, was changing his daughter’s diaper while his wife got ready to sing with her social-justice a cappella choir for the assembling marchers. He said the last year has been revealing more than anything, and in some positive ways. “People thought we were further along with sexism and racism than we are,” he said. After the rally at the Lincoln Memorial, many made their way over to Lafayette Square in front of the White House, where impromptu protests continued. Saturday’s rally felt quieter and calmer than last year’s, but not everything went smoothly. A number of frustrated marchers found that the public restrooms near the Reflecting Pool were closed. A note posted by the National Park Service explained that this was due to the shutdown. There were also a few showdowns between marchers and antiabortion protesters, who held up large photos showing aborted fetuses and advertised numbers to call for women facing a crisis pregnancy. Abortion rights activists stood in front of the protesters or blocked their messages with anti-Trump signs. Washington was the focus of last year’s Women’s March, with hundreds of thousands of protesters filling the streets of the capital. Some of the larger marches held Saturday were in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago, Charlotte and New York. One of the biggest events will take place Sunday in Las Vegas, where a concerted effort is being made to push for voter registration. Democrats are eyeing the U.S. Senate race in swing state Nevada, where incumbent Dean Heller (R) is considered vulnerable and first-term Rep. Jacky Rosen (D) is a leading challenger. The Las Vegas rally will also focus on gun violence and sexual assault and is expected to include speeches by Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards, actress Marisa Tomei and Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.). Kayla Epstein and Erin Logan contributed to this report.
In the wake of Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico is seeking federal help with its tens of thousands of squatters who’ve been living on abandoned or government land for generations, Politico reported. “We have a big problem,” Toa Baja Mayor Bernardo Márquez García told Politico, estimating of his city’s 26,000 homes, 9,000 are illegal. “Before Hurricane Maria hit, we didn’t know we had so much informal construction.” Politico reported that with no legal claim to their homes or the land they’re built on, squatters have no access to federal aid, and Democratic Gov. Ricardo Rosselló has proposed giving 48,000 illegal settlers legal title to their land, a plan that could cost up to $30 million. “Before the emergency, it was something we needed to do; now it’s a more ambitious project,” Puerto Rico Housing Secretary Fernando Gil told Politico. “It would be helping out 48,000 people who thought that they couldn’t get any help.” In Toa Baja, damage from Maria is an estimated $300 million, and Marquez said the community as a whole will have to decide if squatters ultimately should be moved. “Most of the areas that were flooded were squatters, but they’ve been there for 40 or 60 years, for generations,” he told Politico. “They were given facilities, utilities. They’ve built a community, they have a social fabric.” Politico noted that at best, Puerto Rico’s municipal leaders have taken an ad hoc approach to the squatters, who call themselves “rescatadores.” “It’s something that is the fault not only of the person doing the construction and the person who needs a place to live, but also the mayors and senators and even ex-governors, that they allowed it to happen,” Gil told Politico. “There are years and generations of people in these communities.” Winning federal aid to fix the problem will require political muscle — and could be a test for Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson, who visited Puerto Rico in December. “We do recognize that the situation is different here than it is in Texas or Florida or many places,” Carson said, Politico reported. “We want to look at the goals, not the rules.”
Each afternoon at 4:30, the train from Pyongyang to Beijing passes over a rickety old bridge spanning the Yalu River, the border between North Korea and China. North Korean passengers wearing pins bearing the images of past leaders Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il wave to hordes of Chinese tourists who come here, China's northeastern border city of Dandong, to catch a glimpse of the mysterious land across the river. Occasional trains are some of the only traffic left on the China-Korea Friendship Bridge. This is the crossing point for 70 percent of goods entering North Korea from China — things like coal, fuel and household appliances — which are typically transported from Dandong, a gleaming metropolis, to drab Sinuju, the North's second-largest city. But these are atypical times: United Nations sanctions on North Korea for its nuclear and weapons tests have reduced traffic on this bridge to a trickle. The effects are hitting the economy of this Chinese city hard as well. But in April, Dandong's hopes were suddenly lifted. A historic meeting between leaders of North and South Korea provided raised optimism here that the closed country across the river may soon open for business. The summit planned for next week between President Trump and North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un has added more fuel to the anticipation. And investors from across China have flooded in to this border city of 2.4 million. "They came from Beijing, Wenzhou, and all over northeast China," says Bob Li, a Dandong real estate agent. Li says in the two weeks following the inter-Korean summit, a surge of real estate investors into the city catapulted home prices by more than 50 percent. He promptly began renovating his office to accommodate more customers. "I've never seen anything like this in Dandong," says Li, as workers scurry around him. "We'd have several buyers coming in from all over China buying up apartments. To them, the homes were very cheap, so they would buy as many as possible." And now, a border town suffering from international trade sanctions is back in business, with apartment complexes and Spanish-style villas under construction, despite new rules hastily handed down by the local government to curb speculation and stabilize the spike in prices. A bulk of the sales has taken place near the foot of a massive, new suspension bridge China built across the river to North Korea in the hopes that the North would build a road to it on the other side. Kim Jong Un refused. So for four years, the four-lane, $330 million bridge has connected the world's second-largest economy to a farm field on the North Korean side of the river. It was supposed to replace the friendship bridge built in 1943 and boost trade. "The rumor around town is that if the North opens up, it'll finally build a road to the new bridge, and our city will be linked to Seoul by road," says Li. "Pyongyang would just be a stop on the way." Visions of a land link between Dandong and an economic giant like South Korea HAVE attracted real estate investors like Mr. Xu. He only gives his surname for fear of getting caught up in local authorities' crackdown on property speculation. Xu just arrived from Shanghai, over 1,100 miles away by land. "Whatever happens between the U.S. and the North is irrelevant," he insists. "It's clear to me that the relationship between China and North Korea is moving forward, and if the North opens up as a result, Dandong will be transformed. This is a port city after all." But local business people remain skeptical. Four men sit outside their auto parts shop in central Dandong, grousing about how outsiders are taking a big gamble by investing in this city. "I just don't think a summit with Trump will persuade North Korea to open up," says a man who only gave the name Yang, for fear of retribution for speaking to foreign media. "Trump's always changing his mind, and we don't know what Kim Jong Un ever thinks, either. The two of them behave just like little children," he says. "Why should we put the future of our city in their hands?" NPR News Assistant Yuhan Xu contributed research to this story in Dandong, China. Copyright 2018 NPR. To see more, visit http://www.npr.org/. ARI SHAPIRO, HOST: Now let's go to one place that will be closely watching this summit between President Trump and North Korea's Kim Jong Un. It's a city on China's border with North Korea. If the North opens up, people there are well-positioned to be at the center of an economic boom. NPR's Rob Schmitz reports. ROB SCHMITZ, BYLINE: Each afternoon at half past four, the train from Pyongyang to Beijing passes over a rickety bridge spanning the Yalu River, the border between North Korea and China. North Korean passengers wear pins bearing the images of past leaders Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il wave to hordes of tourists who come here from all over China to catch a glimpse of the mysterious land across the river. Occasional trains like this are some of the only traffic left on the China-Korea Friendship Bridge, a structure that typically carries more than 70 percent of all goods imported into North Korea. But these are atypical times. U.N. sanctions on North Korea for its nuclear and missile tests have reduced traffic on this bridge to a trickle, hitting the economy of Dandong, a city of nearly 2 1/2 million people, hard. But then in April, Dandong's fate suddenly got brighter. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: North and South Korea agreed to work toward denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula. SCHMITZ: The historic meeting between leaders of North and South Korea provided a glimmer of hope for Dandong that the quiet, closed country across the river may soon open for business. Investors from across the country flooded in. BOB LI: (Through interpreter) They came from Beijing, Wenzhou and all over northeast China. SCHMITZ: Bob Li oversees a crew of workers renovating his real estate agency, making it more accommodating for a sudden surge in customers. He says in the two weeks following the Korean summit, home prices here went up more than 50 percent. LI: (Through interpreter) I've never seen anything like this in Dandong. We've had several buyers coming in from all over China buying up apartments. To them, the homes were very cheap, so they would buy as many as possible. SCHMITZ: And now a city whose economy was battered by international sanctions appears to be back in business, apartment complexes and Spanish-style villas under construction despite new local laws meant to curb speculation. A bulk of the sales are taking place near the foot of a massive new suspension bridge China built across the river to North Korea in the hopes that the North would build a road to it. Kim Jong Un refused. So for four years, this four-lane, $330 million bridge has connected the world's second-largest economy to a farm field on the North Korean side of the river, another empty Dandong bridge full of potential. Again, real estate agent Bob Li. LI: (Through interpreter) The rumor around town is that if the North opens up, it'll finally build a road to the bridge, and our city will be linked to Seoul, South Korea. Pyongyang would just be a stop on the way. SCHMITZ: It's this, a potential land link between Dandong and Seoul via North Korea, that has attracted real estate investors like Mr. Xu, who only gives his surname for fear of getting caught up in the local crackdown on real estate speculation. Xu just arrived from Shanghai. XU: (Through interpreter) Whatever happens between the U.S. and the North is irrelevant. It's clear to me that the relationship between China and North Korea is moving forward. And if the North opens up as a result, Dandong will be transformed. This is a port city after all. SCHMITZ: But local businesspeople remain skeptical. (CROSSTALK) SCHMITZ: Four men sit outside their auto parts shop in central Dandong grousing about how outsiders are taking a big gamble by investing in this city. YANG: (Foreign language spoken). SCHMITZ: "I just don't think a summit with Trump will persuade North Korea to open up," says a man named Yang. "Trump's always changing his mind," he says, "and we don't know what Kim Jong Un ever thinks either." YANG: (Foreign language spoken). SCHMITZ: "The two of them behave just like little children," he says. "And why," he asks, "should Dandong put its future in their hands?" Rob Schmitz, NPR News, Dandong. (SOUNDBITE OF OCHRE'S "SUSPENSION") Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.
Barsakelmes nature reserve in the Aral Sea has been named Kazakhstan’s miracle. The reserve is part of the UN eco-projects. According to experts, flora and fauna of an island bordering with Uzbekistan, should be studied thoroughly. More than 298 species of plants and 56 species of animals grow and live in this amazing place. However, the island gained worldwide fame in the mid-20th century. The fame of the reserve is connected with the kulan, the onager which was enlisted in the red book and then had entirely disappeared.Later eight adult animals were brought from Turkmenistan to the island. Now the population has exceeded 500 heads. Initially, ​​the protected area amounted to more than 16,000 hectares. Then an ecosystem improved, the area expanded tenfold. In addition, projects are being implemented to introduce green and moisture-preserving technologies in different zones of the reserve. ZAURESH ALIMBETOVA, DIRECTOR, BARSAKELMES NATURE RESERVE: - The Barsakelmes reserve is included in the list of the UNESCO Biosphere Reserves. The Aral Sea and the Syr Darya River are considered as significant wetlands and listed in the international conventions. Our goal is to protect and preserve these natural resources for future generations. Barsakelmes joined the UNESCO World Network of Biosphere Reserves. 18 projects worth US$300,000 have been implemented here with the support of the UN international development program. TALGAT KERTESHEV, PROJECT MANAGER, UNDP: - We have certified eight water channels. Funds for clearing were allocated and a legal status was restored and they were transferred to local executive bodies. Barsakelmes is the only reserve in the world located in the area of an ecological disaster of a global scale. The reserve plays a central role in preserving the biodiversity of the Aral Sea and is an open-air laboratory. According to experts, a wide range of expeditions needs to be organized here. Then a progress in preserving the island will be made.
It’s a little after 3pm in Detroit’s 8 Mile neighbourhood, and the cicadas are buzzing loudly in the trees. Children weave down the pavements on bicycles, while a pickup basketball game gets under way in a nearby park. The sky is a deep blue with only a hint of an approaching thunderstorm – in other words, a muggy, typical summer Sunday in Michigan’s largest city. “8 Mile”, as the locals call it, is far from the much-touted economic “renaissance” taking place in Detroit’s centre. Tax delinquency and debt are still major issues, as they are in most places in the city. Crime and blight exist side by side with carefully trimmed hedgerows and mowed lawns, a patchwork that changes from block to block. In many ways it resembles every other blighted neighbourhood in the city – but with one significant difference. Hidden behind the oak-lined streets is an insidious piece of history that most Detroiters, let alone Americans, don’t even know exists: a half mile-long, 5ft tall concrete barrier that locals simply call “the wall”. “Growing up, we didn’t know what that wall was for,” says Teresa Moon, president of the 8 Mile Community Organization. “It used to be a rite of passage to walk on top of the wall, like a balancing beam. You know, just kids having fun, that kind of thing. It was only later when I found out what it was for, and when I realised the audacity that they had to build it.” In 1942, 8 Mile was a black neighbourhood – segregated by law, segregated by culture, segregated from white Oakland County by the eponymous 8 Mile Road. It was a self-contained community, filled with not only African Americans but immigrants of all colours, some of whom had built their houses with their own hands. It was also adjacent to empty land – valuable land that developers were rapaciously turning into homes for a surging postwar population. Land that one housing developer wanted to use to build a “whites-only neighbourhood”. The only problem was, he couldn’t get federal funding to develop the land unless he could prove he had a strategy to prevent black people and white people from mixing. His answer: wall off the white neighbourhood with a concrete barrier. “That wall is a monument,” says Moon. “We survived it. It’s a part of what happened, and no one feels any negativity towards what happened.” Her neighbour, Lou Ross, agrees. “What that Wall was intended for, it didn’t work that way. It did for a minute – but it didn’t last.” Today, policymakers are making plans to revamp the nation’s infrastructure. The Trump administration has pledged to create a $1tn infrastructure renewal plan, and came to power, after all, on the promise of building a massive wall. But, like Trump’s wall and the 8-mile wall, infrastructure is not value-free – and the decisions made now will affect the future of inequality in our cities. To get an understanding of how infrastructure transforms communities, there’s no better place to start than the Federal Housing Authority “redlining” housing maps. Commissioned by the federal government in the 1930s, these maps were critical to decisions of where and what type of infrastructure, lending and housing each neighbourhood of each American city would be able to receive. “The FHA promoted home ownership in new – and primarily suburban – neighbourhoods so long as they were white and not ethnically or economically diverse,” writes Antero Pietila in Not in My Neighbourhood: How Bigotry Shaped a Great American City. If your neighbourhood had the misfortune to be “redlined”, it was often doomed to a future of stillborn investment and decay. Specifically, it would be impossible to secure federally backed mortgages, a sort of scarlet letter branded across huge swaths of the city. Developers avoided these areas and concentrated investment into white areas, and services stagnated. The seeds of the future ghettos of America had been sown. FHA maps were created for every major city in the US. Original assessment documents unearthed by researchers at the T-Races project reveal the cold, casually racist way in which data collectors consigned vast neighbourhoods to neglect and poverty: West Oakland in California is a typical example of a redlined neighbourhood. Historically a working-class community of immigrants and African Americans, it stagnated after being redlined. By the 1950s and 60s, during the interstate building boom, West Oakland was in a prime position to be carved up and paved over: full of low-income housing, it offered little to no political opposition. A literal ring of concrete was poured around the neighbourhood, the precursors to today’s I-580, I-880 and I-980, and the result was decay, pollution and crime that characterised West Oakland for decades. But it was by no means alone. The process of routing roads through black communities was so common it even had a name among critics: “White roads through black bedrooms.” Nowhere is infrastructure so obviously divisive as with the vast interstate highway system. Ubiquitous, generally free and heavily used, it’s undeniably a vital part of the American experience. There are more than one million miles of federal aid highways in the US, which cost $105bn a year to maintain. If American highway spending were a country, it would have the world’s 63rd largest GDP, just behind Morocco. But while these roads unify and connect millions of the country’s citizens, they’ve also excluded and destroyed many black communities. West Baltimore is an exceptionally bleak area in an exceptionally poor, overwhelmingly black American city. The city recorded 343 homicides in 2017, the highest murder rate per capita in the country. It’s almost double that of Chicago, and 18 times higher than New York City. Racial divisions run deep here, a segregation of opportunity, class and even life expectancy. On a humid September morning, police cars darted furiously through empty streets, their sirens blaring. In front of the housing complex where Freddie Gray was killed in 2015, two white police officers questioned a young black man in an SUV, their hands resting on their weapons. Many of the homes have boarded-up windows and doors, and even wooden scaffolding to prevent them from collapsing. The city has more than 16,000 abandoned properties, some of them vacant for decades. In the middle of this blight stands a monument to failed American city planning: a giant ditch that bisects West Baltimore neatly into north and south. Officially named State Route 40, it was originally intended to be a key part of a proposed east-west freeway presented as crucial to the city’s growth. This gigantic project upended hundreds of lives, transformed an entire landscape and cost tens of millions of dollars. The locals call it the “road to nowhere”. “It was an obvious name to give,” says Denise Johnson, a community organiser who grew up in West Baltimore. “We lost families, we lost homeowners, we lost businesses, and we lost churches. And we lost people. People who were stable. People who didn’t plan to leave the community.” In the 1950s, a vast increase in cars was beginning to clog the roads to and from the new suburbs. The federal government poured money into the brand new interstate system, encouraging radials, arteries and thoroughfares through dense urban neighbourhoods. This also presented city planners with what seemed an unprecedented opportunity – to use federal funds to clear out “slums” and open up vast tracts of land. Where to build a freeway became not only an economic decision, but also a moral one – a chance to uplift and sweep clean America’s ghettos. But were they ghettos? “This was not a neighbourhood that was struggling,” says John Bullock, the city councilman for Baltimore’s ninth district, which includes the road to nowhere. “We’re talking about middle-class neighbourhoods, which were seen through the eyes of others as slums or ghettos because of the colour of the people who lived there.” The road, says Bullock, who also teaches political science at Towson University, was yet another example of infrastructure marginalising black citizens. “We’re talking about generations of black people who have faced these challenges. Not only from the highway, but also disinvestment, the redlining, the lack of employment. Because if we say housing was lost, churches were lost, we have to remember also businesses were lost. And oftentimes people have to go outside their communities to spend that money, which never gets recirculated in that community.” Moreover, while the freeways opened up routes from the suburbs to the city centres, there were often a conspicuous lack of entrances in black communities. The gigantic concrete ditch in West Baltimore is a perfect example: sunken, without exits – it effectively seals off one side from the other. Interstates touched the lives of millions of people, in hundreds of cities across the US. From Atlanta to Chicago, Denver to New York, black communities felt the twin pain of urban decay and expropriation of land. But before the Voting Rights Act, black people had no legal recourse through which to oppose such plans. “I call it the falseness of community engagement,” says Denise Johnson, her voice rising with emotion at the frustration of decades of failed promises. “Back then, when they were building that highway, there was no mandated policy that you had to engage the community. Now, there is a mandated policy to engage the community, which is a good thing. But at the same time, it’s still just … their agenda.” In recent years those failed promises have included the Red Line. This was a light rail project, heavily championed by the city council, that would have connected East and West Baltimore, and provided thousands of jobs and economic development. The proposed route of the Red Line would have been overlaid on the road to nowhere, with a stop at Harlem Park in West Baltimore. But despite the project winning federal approval and funding, incoming governor Larry Hogan cancelled the project, citing its cost, enraging the city government and large portions of the African American community. In Baltimore, the added insult was that the road to nowhere didn’t even have to happen. To this day, the one-mile, six-lane road sees so little traffic that when it is shut down, as it is occasionally due to film shoots or snowfall, hardly anyone notices. It ends abruptly just outside the city, a strange amputation that is now a park-and-ride, cleaving a terrible wound through the middle of a major city for no reason: too big to replace, too expensive to tear down. Detroit, like Baltimore, also suffered disruptive interstate projects that decimated African American communities. Submerged highways snake through the city: I-94, I-96, I-75. Home to the automobile, it may be the best connected city in America for cars. Above these transportation corridors, the ghost factories of Ford, General Motors and Chrysler dot a desolate landscape that resembles an urban prairie. One such district teeming with available land is the historically African American neighbourhood that used to be known as Black Bottom. It was a vibrant, dense area in a prime location just north-east of downtown, with a nationally renowned music scene and home to many famous residents, including boxer Joe Louis and the first African American mayor of Detroit, Coleman Young. The area was mixed, rich and poor, with migrants from Syria, Poland and Germany co-existing in a bustling urban area that ran from the Detroit river all the way up to Grand Ave. Young called it a “thrilling convergence of people, a wonderfully versatile and self-contained society”. By the mid-1950s, however, the declining auto industry had hit Black Bottom hard, and the all-white Detroit city council deemed it a “slum”. The neighbourhood became one of the first casualties in the grand “Detroit Plan”. Freeways, hospitals, universities and housing developments were planned and built, creating radical changes to the city fabric, including the destruction of vast amounts of housing to construct Route 10 and I-75. While some improvements were applauded and created highly valuable land, like Lafayette Park, almost all of the beneficiaries of the improved housing stock were white. Tens of thousands of African Americans were either forced into high-rent properties or high-rise public housing projects. Moreover, white landowners often prevented African Americans from renting in “white communities”. The forced removals of the 1950s remain one of the single biggest upheavals in the city’s modern history. Today, Black Bottom is gone. All that remains are some vacant industrial buildings, empty fields and I-75. In Jackson Ward, a neighbourhood in Richmond, Virginia, the story was much the same. Formed after the civil war by urban African Americans and recently freed slaves, it was an unlikely place for a vibrant black community (the city was the capital of the briefly lived Confederate States of America). But vibrant it was. The business community there was known as “black Wall Street” and its social and economic capital earned it the nickname the “Harlem of the South”. Maggie Walker, the first female bank president (of any race) to charter a bank in the US, lived there; a statue of her welcomes visitors to the Ward today. The area was central to the civil rights movement in Richmond and today is honoured with US National Park Service historic status. Jackson Ward began to change, however, during the second world war. The construction of Gilpin Court, a large public housing project, and the I-95, a transport artery to connect Richmond to its neighbours, saw federal funds pour in. Unsurprisingly, the formerly redlined, historically important neighbourhood of Jackson Ward was chosen as the path of construction. Photographs show the breadth of the interstate – almost a city block wide. The southern section was fortunate in its proximity to downtown, and parts of it are now a sought-after neighbourhood. But the northern section, anchored by Gilpin Court and the Shockoe Hill cemetery, were isolated. Roads, businesses and homes were demolished, turning Gilpin Court into an island. The area plunged into an economic and cultural malaise, disintegrating into blocks of land now filled only with grass. One small victory was the Sixth Mount Zion Baptist church, a historic site of worship built in 1884, which had the misfortune to be located directly in the path of the interstate. With the bulldozers looming, a loud and furious resistance from community members prevented construction proceeding as planned. The church was permitted to stand, and the entire interstate was re-engineered to bend around it – one of the few symbols of resistance still visible. Today, northern Jackson Ward is still 96% African American, and the average income is only $9,357, far below the poverty line of $15,000. Making the case that infrastructure itself can be exclusionary is hardly straightforward. Many of the worst decisions in US planning were made decades ago to intentionally disenfranchise, marginalise and separate communities; policies such as redlining and “blight clearing” are well-documented embarrassments. But many decisions that segregated communities were unintentional. The stop sign and one-way street might seem benign, but they shape our lives in ways we sometimes don’t even realise. Roads, bridges and walls are agents of change, with a direct impact on our lives. Who has control over where these are placed? Who says how many there will be? How big? As the US gears up for its biggest infrastructure revitalisation project in decades, it is only by asking these questions and acknowledging the power of city planning to impact lives that we can hope to prevent the injustices of the past and fix those of the present. Johnny Miller is the founder of the NGO africanDRONE. This story was produced in part with a travel grant and technology support from Code for Africa and from the International Center for Journalists Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to join the discussion, and explore our archive here
A fire has hit the most important shrine in Tibetan Buddhism - the Jokhang Monastery in Lhasa. Footage posted online showed flames billowing from the roof and what appeared to be at least one gutted pagoda. No casualties were reported. Chinese state media said the blaze started on Saturday evening and was soon put out. The extent of damage to the sprawling compound is unclear. State media said there was no damage to cultural relics. Tibet, the remote and mainly Buddhist territory known as the "roof of the world", is governed as an autonomous region of China. The Jokhang monastery is more than 1,000 years old and is listed as a Unesco World Heritage Site. Streets near the monastery reopened to pilgrims on Sunday morning, state media said. Reports say that Chinese authorities quickly tried to block footage and images of the fire appearing on social media. Beijing maintains tight control of news reports from Tibet, where Buddhist sites have been a focal point for separatist unrest in the past. Foreign journalists are not able to enter Tibet without special permission. Tibetan writer Tsering Woeser told AFP she was "very worried" about the state of the monastery. "Tibetans consider Lhasa to be a sacred place, but Jokhang is a sacred place within that sacred place - the most sacred in all of Tibet," she said. "Some people say it's only because of Jokhang that the holy city of Lhasa exists at all." "No matter where they are in the world, Tibetans all wish to come to Lhasa to pray at Jokhang; it's the wish of a lifetime. Many who make pilgrimage to Lhasa prostrating do so just to visit the temple," she added. The fire comes as Tibetans celebrate Losar, their traditional new year, which began on Friday. Tibet has had a tumultuous history, during which it has spent some periods functioning as an independent entity and others ruled by powerful Chinese and Mongolian dynasties. China sent in thousands of troops to enforce its claim on the region in 1950. Some areas became the Tibetan Autonomous Region and others were incorporated into neighbouring Chinese provinces. China says Tibet has developed considerably under its rule. But rights groups say China continues to violate human rights, accusing it of political and religious repression - something Beijing denies.
Firefighters are currently still tackling a huge blaze on Saddleworth Moor – hours after it was declared a ‘major incident’. Fire crews were first called to attend blaze on the hills above Dove Stone Reservoir and Carrbrook in Tameside at 8.20pm on Sunday. The ‘inferno’ – which has been described as ‘the largest in living memory’ – measures 6km as of Wednesday. Homes in the area are being evacuated, with residents being advised to stay indoors as a smoky haze absorbs the surrounding area. Follow our live blog below for updates as they break.... 11:52am GMP are warning motorists to be careful when driving along the M60. While there are no road closers, the smoke from the fire is so far reaching that's causing issues in terms of visiblity and breathing for drivers. There aren't any road closures or impact on the transport system but please drive safely as the smoke from #Moorlandfire is far-reaching across Greater Manchester, especially around the M60. 11:40am Social media users aren't miss the chance to shower praise on those firefighters tackling the blaze. Just one of the touching posts says: "We’re all moaning about how hot it is whilst they’re all in heavy suits carrying heavy gear in this weather." Spare a thought for all the firefighters trying their hardest to stop that fire on Saddleworth Moor. We’re all moaning about how hot it is whilst they’re all in heavy suits carrying heavy gear in this weather, plus the extra heat from the fire. Huge respect to them all!!! pic.twitter.com/FsfNu5oKYR 11:26am Public Health England are continuing to remind people how damaging smoke can be to a person's health. The latest update from the North West body explains how it can irritate people's thoat and eyes. Latest health advice re #moorlandfires Smoke is an irritant and can make eyes and throats sore - wash your face with soap and water and keep hydrated by drinking water. If you have any health concerns contact the NHS 111 service. @gmpolice @manchesterfire 11:15am Debbie Abrahams, the MP for Oldham East and Saddleworth, has released a detailed statement regarding the fire. She thanks the firefighters for their bravery and reiterates that people in the area should take precautions to stay safe until the blaze is dealt with. I am in touch with both the police & fire service regarding the devastating #SaddleworthMoor fire. You can read my update on the attached statement. Please do share far & wide. pic.twitter.com/jqFWxDGrn0 11:07am A distressing video shows one resident choking amid the smokes that's completed absorbed the the outside of her property. In the video - which was shared on Twitter - you can hear the resident coughing and struggling for breath. Getting much worse..horses now evacuated but smoke is choking..more fire fighter's and engines have arrived!! Flames still going..its like Silent Hill with all the ash floating about! @MENnewsdesk #saddleworth #carrbrookfire #moorlandfire pic.twitter.com/hy2k6UdKn2 10:59am Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service have revealed that new aerial images will soon be available at Greater Manchester Police take to the skies in a helicopter. It's hoped that these images will help firefighters form a tactical plan to tackle the blaze. Our partners at @gmpolice are currently assessing the scene with a helicopter in Tameside which will help us formulate a tactical plan for fighting the fire. Keep an eye out for some images from the air . All updates on our website - https://t.co/NvvXH8kRI1 https://t.co/COOSjh5qJG 10:55am Concerned residents have been sharing pictures from their properties around Saddlworth Moor. While most images don't show the actual fire, they do capture how the abundance of smoke has cast a shadow over the clear blues skies being enjoyed by the rest of the region. The fire from my house in oldham on Saddleworth Moor. pic.twitter.com/7auIPIKaUS 10:46am Stalybridge MP Jonathan Reynolds likened the fire to an apocalyptic scene this morning. During an interview on TalkRadio, the politician said: "It’s almost like an apocalyptic scene, because of the nature of the landscape and the scale of the fire. "The smoke in the town itself is quite unbelievable.We have had this before, fires on the moors, particularly in summer it does happen. But nothing on this scale. "Usually it happens that they burn out and the service are used to dealing with them. But this is particularly frightening for people and we’ve had to evacuate people in one part of Stalybridge. "They were right next to it, it’s hard to describe just how close it got." 10:37am In the last hour Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service have shared pictures from Tamesides, in which plumes of smoke of smoke can still be seen rising over the moors. The service once again thanked the crews, partners and volunteers for their continued support. A few snaps from the scene at Tameside moorland earlier this morning - another busy day ahead for our crews, partners and volunteers. Thank you for all your help and support during this tricky incident pic.twitter.com/1TwTaA5B1q 10:30am Pulic Health England have released important health messages for anyone who's affected by the fire. In particular, the North West body are urging residents and motorists to keep windows closed to avoid excessive exposure to the smoke. Important health messages for anyone affected by the #moorlandfire @manchesterfire pic.twitter.com/3usdiZao5A 10:21am Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service have not ruled out requesting the help of the Army to help them tackle the inferno on Saddleworth Moor. Assistant Chief Fire Officer Leon Parkes said: "The plan today is to try and really, really put some resource on the scene and put a heavy attack on this fire, and if that needs military assistance then that's what we'll consider. "We've got over six kilometres of affected area - there is fire occurring in pockets around the outskirts. So we have got a belt of fire and obviously the wind direction at the time will have an affect on that. "The seats of fire are not where we can access. We are having to park fire engines up and some of the fire scenes are two miles away so we are having to use other vehicles supplied by our partner agencies to transport firefighters and kit into those areas." 10:10am The fire spread so rapidly due to the dryness of the vegetation on the moors, coupled with the extremely high temperatures that have been experienced in the recent heatwave. BBC Weather forecasts that today's temperature will reach highs of 27 degrees, which could further pose problems for the 50-strong team of firefighters tackling the blaze. 10:03am Greater Manchester Police shared this eerie picture from their headquarters in Central Park, Newton Heath in the early hours of the morning. It predicted that there would be a 'long, hot, smoky day' ahead. Dawn over the moors has revealed what we're dealing with... This morning's view from @gmpolice HQ Our thoughts are with those affected and @manchesterfire who have worked bravely through the night. It is going to be a long, hot, smoky day. #Staysafe out there#Moorefires pic.twitter.com/jXH2aATFfE 9:55am GMFRS Assistant Chief Fire Officer Leon Parkes has confirmed that 34 homes were evacuated last night in the Calcio Crescent area. He added that up to 50 firefighters are now on the scene. At a press conference this morning, he said: “A major incident was declared late last night by Greater Manchester Police due to the scale of the incident and the need for close multi-agency working. “We are reassessing the scene this morning and will be formulating tactical plan for today. Our fire crews have been working in tremendously difficult circumstances and I would like to thank all of our firefighters, partners, volunteers and the public for their support and hard work throughout this incident. “Currently we have up to 50 firefighters in attendance with support from Derbyshire Fire and Rescue Service and two wildfire units covering an area of 6km. Air samples have been taken by our partners in multiple areas and the air levels are safe. If you are affected by smoke in your area, please close your windows and doors as we continue to fight the fire today. “Last night 34 homes were evacuated as a precaution in the Calcio Crescent area, all of whom are all staying with friends and family. We are doing all we can to get those evacuated back into their homes today. “Please avoid the area if possible, and if you are using the M60, please drive safely as this area may be affected by smoke.”
Macquarie Harbour salmon: 1.35 million fish deaths prompt call to 'empty' waterway of farms By Siobhan Galea, Emily Street and James Dunlevie Updated May 29, 2018 19:26:23 Photo: Macquarie Harbour "should be emptied of fish" to help it recover, Environment Tasmania says. (ABC News: Sophie Zoellner) After it is revealed more than a million farmed fish died within six months in Macquarie Harbour, one salmon company effectively says "we told you so", another says the dead fish were "replaced quickly" and the third says it has no obligation to detail its losses to the public. Photo: Mixing old and young fish is a recipe for disease, the EPA says. (ABC News: Sophie Zoellner) Tasmania's Environment Protection Authority (EPA) confirmed 1.35 million salmon died in Macquarie Harbour on Tasmania's west coast since last October. An area management agreement report provided by Huon Aquaculture, Petuna and Tassal found the deaths were mainly due to an outbreak of pilchard orthomyxovirus (POMV), transferred from wild populations. That report had not been made available to the public. EPA director Wes Ford told ABC Hobart the 2017 "mixing of young fish with old fish" could exacerbate the likelihood of disease in the population. "POMV can be exacerbated by stress caused by heat, low oxygen, and I think this summer we've seen some elevated temperatures and clearly some concerns about oxygen." He confirmed the EPA would be reducing Macquarie Harbour's biomass limit by 21 per cent over the next two years, from 12,000 tonnes to 9,500 tonnes. Salmon companies respond Following today's news of the death toll, the companies affected by the mass fish kill issued statements. Huon Aquaculture said it was "disappointed" that it had warned other farmers and the Government in September that mixing young and old fish at the same site would increase the risk, but was "ignored". "Since then, we understand the practice [of mixing age groups] will cease in the future. Huon does not mix year classes of fish," the company said. Huon Aquaculture, which has clashed with rival Tassal in the past, said it was "important as an industry we don't repeat the mistakes of the past". "We remain hopeful that biosecurity improvements will be a focus for the industry and the Government as a matter of urgency". Tassal said in a statement the fish deaths did not have a major impact on their activities. "Tassal and Petuna have worked proactively to embed better biosecurity and environmental outcomes for the harbour via a joint-venture farming operation, which enables both separation of year, class and extended fallowing periods for leases." Petuna said the culling of two fish pen populations after veterinary advice had helped to reduce the spread of the disease within its lease. It said it would not disclose data on the company's individual stock losses for the summer. "Under the [Area Management] Agreement, each company confidentially provides its own specific data, which is then independently collated to ensure each company's competitive market positions are not compromised," Petuna said in a statement. "The company is not required to report this information other than to the Marine Farming Branch, which it does monthly." The EPA's Wes Ford said the losses would be "significantly above" what the companies would normally factor into production quotas. While the disease proved devastating for the farmed salmon, it did not transfer to the harbour's trout population, which survived, Mr Ford said. Photo: All three leaseholders were affected by the disease outbreak. (Supplied) Harbour's troubled history Industrial salmon farming began in Macquarie Harbour in the 1980s, with Tassal establishing operations there in 2003, joined by Huon in 2008 and Petuna around 2011. The waterway, which is adjacent to a World Heritage Area, had a biomass limit set at 9,500 tonnes of fish across all companies, however lobbying began to increase that soon after the release of an environmental impact study which stated the harbour could sustain 29,000 tonnes — with the desires for expansion by salmon producers backed by the Labor primary industries minister Bryan Green. Come 2016, the Hodgman Liberal Government's Primary Industries Minister Jeremy Rockliff agreed to increase the biomass limit to 21,500 tonnes effective July 1 of that year. In October, a Four Corners investigation into the Tasmanian salmon industry aired concerns from Huon Aquaculture that the waterway was on course for a catastrophe, with the Liberal Government later defending fish farming and its regulatory safeguards. In November 2016, the EPA — which had taken over regulation of Macquarie Harbour — announced it was cutting the biomass limit to 14,000 tonnes "following an assessment of the most recently available scientific data". In February 2017, the EPA ordered Tassal to de-stock salmon leases at Macquarie Harbour, with the ABC revealing a science report had found a so-called dead zone under one of Tassal's leases, the farming area closest to the World Heritage Area. Photo: The harbour's fish farming industry has been plagued by environmental issues. (Michael Cavanagh) Salmon farmers 'have to get out of Macquarie' On today's release of the numbers of fish killed, the Greens' environment spokeswoman Rosalie Woodruff said the harbour had been damaged — perhaps irrevocably — and called on the Government to step in. "We have to have a moratorium on all fish farming. The salmon farming companies have to get out of Macquarie Harbour," she said. Photo: Wes Ford says the harbour "has not been performing as it should" and a biomass reduction is needed. (ABC News: David Robertson ) Environment Tasmania said more than 2,000 Tasmanians had petitioned salmon companies to release a fish death toll, and accused the Government of concealing the figures in the lead up to the March state election. Laura Kelly from Environment Tasmania said they were still looking for answers. "The Government is still refusing to release the January 2018 [Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies] science on the harbour, while acknowledging that the report shows a worsening of conditions, increased marine species death under leases and four leases in breach of state regulations related to bacteria mats on the harbour floor," she said. Mr Ford confirmed the EPA would be reducing Macquarie Harbour's biomass limit by 21 per cent over the next two years, from 12,000 tonnes to 9,500 tonnes. He said that would not come as a surprise to the companies, which had seen a series of mass fish deaths and stock reductions over the past two years. "Clearly, I've had to step down the biomass over a number of years now because the harbour has not been performing as it should," he said. But Ms Kelly said the EPA's latest biomass limit would not be enough to restore the harbour to healthy levels. "A biomass of 9,500 tonnes will be maintained when biosecurity, animal welfare and endangered species protection all demand that Macquarie Harbour should be emptied of fish and given a chance to recover," she said. Topics: fishing-aquaculture, fish, animal-science, environmental-management, water-management, environmental-impact, environmental-policy, environment, science-and-technology, water-pollution, strahan-7468 First posted May 29, 2018 13:08:59
(CNN)New satellite images show just how far Cape Town's biggest water reservoir has shrunk as the city nears the day when it completely runs out of water. Drought, population growth and climate change are helping fuel Cape Town's water crisis. Officials believe taps will run dry on April 12, cutting off water access to the city's 4 million residents. Satellite images provided to CNN by planet.com show the Theewaterskloof Dam, Cape Town's largest water reservoir, at dangerously low levels. It's only 13 percent full this week — down a full percent from last week. The dam is so massive, it holds more than 480,000 megalitres of water, or 126 billion gallons. It accounts for 53 percent of all water in the region's dam system. NASA satellite imagery shows the broader impact that the worst drought in a century has had on the region. The green is the vegetation. The blue are lakes. Both have shrunk, especially near Cape Town. These 'false color' images are generated by NASA's satellite, which uses multiple wavelengths to help identify different landscapes on Earth.
Saudi warplanes strike wedding convoy in northwestern Yemen, kill 11 Iran Press TV Tue Jul 3, 2018 12:41PM Nearly a dozen people have lost their lives and several others sustained injuries when Saudi fighter jets carried out airstrikes against a wedding convoy in Yemen's northwestern mountainous province of Sa'ada as the Riyadh regime presses ahead with its atrocious bombardment campaign against its crisis-stricken southern neighbor. Local sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Yemen's Arabic-language al-Masirah television network that the vehicles were traveling along a road in the Ghaferah area of al-Dhaher district when they were attacked. The sources added that 11 people were killed and as many others, mostly women and children, injured. The death toll is expected to rise as some of the injured are said to be in critical condition. Separately, a woman was killed when Saudi military aircraft struck a residential building in the Haydan district of the same Yemeni province. The aerial raids reportedly caused extensive damage at the area. Elsewhere in the Hayran district of the northern Yemen's province of Hajjah, three farmhands lost their lives and two others were injured when an unmanned aerial vehicle struck a farm. Moreover, Yemeni army troopers, backed by allied fighters from Popular Committees, fired a domestically-designed and -manufactured short-range ballistic missile at a position of Saudi-sponsored militiamen loyal to Yemen's former president Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi in Yemen's western coastal province of Hudaydah, killing and injuring scores of the Saudi mercenaries. Three other people were also killed in a Saudi airstrike against the western port city of Hudaydah, located 150 kilometers southwest of the capital Sana'a. Furthermore, Yemeni forces have fired a short-range domestically-manufactured Badr-1 ballistic missile at King Faisal military base in Khamis Mushait city of Saudi Arabia's southwestern region of Jizan. There were no immediate reports about possible casualties and the extent of damage caused. The Yemeni Ministry of Human Rights announced in a statement on March 25 that the Saudi-led war had left 600,000 civilians dead and injured since March 2015. The United Nations says a record 22.2 million Yemenis are in need of food aid, including 8.4 million threatened by severe hunger. A high-ranking UN aid official recently warned against the "catastrophic" living conditions in Yemen, stating that there was a growing risk of famine and cholera there. "People's lives have continued unraveling. Conflict has escalated since November, driving an estimated 100,000 people from their homes," John Ging, UN director of aid operations, told the UN Security Council on February 27.
Aron Mushaukwa Katima Mulilo-Five schools in the Zambezi Region have temporarily closed due to heavy floods that have swamped schools in the low-lying areas following heavy rains that have characterised the past few months. Schools that have closed down are: Muzii Combined, Nankutwe Combined, Mpukano Primary, Namiyundu Primary and Ikaba Combined . Although the acting Director of Education in Zambezi Region, Joost Kawana, has confirmed the closure of four schools so far, New Era is, however, reliably informed that the school management at Ikaba Combined School resolved to close down yesterday. This, after floodwater surrounded the school, and teachers and learners had to wade through overflowing streams to get to school. The community hostel, where the boys had pitched their tents, has also been submerged by the floodwater, so learners have no place to stay. Kawana said 47 Grade 9 and 10 learners from Muzii were relocated to Lusese, where they have resumed classes. “We only relocated Grade 9 and 10 because those are external classes. The understanding is that when schools close… they can do the compensation teaching,” he said. Kawana explained that learners from Nankutwe were not relocated because they did not go on holiday during the two-week mid-term break. “They used that time to compensate for the loss. Therefore, for them they are fine; they did their job,’’ he said. He added that learners and teachers are being provided with food and sanitation. Despite the school closures, community members are reluctant to relocate for fear they would suffer if they relocate, as government has not yet indicated whether it would food relief. The government has provided free maize meal, cooking oil and other basics in previous relocations. “Maybe, if the government is well prepared to provide everything for us, then we would not have a problem to relocate. They even struggled to relocate the learners, so how will they be able to relocate the masses?” questioned the chairperson of the village development committee of Muzii, Joseph Lyungu. He added that people are happy to stay in the villages and benefit from the resources like fish, which come in abundance with flood rather than die of hunger if they relocate. Other areas that are affected by heavy flooding are: Schuckmannsburg, Masikili, Ivilivinzi, Lisikili, Imukusi, Mbalasinte, Nsundwa and Nfoma.
Researchers using a high-tech aerial mapping technique have found tens of thousands of previously undetected Mayan houses, buildings, defence works and pyramids in the dense jungle of Guatemala’s Peten region, suggesting that millions more people lived there than previously thought. The discoveries, which included industrial-sized agricultural fields and irrigation canals, were announced on Thursday by an alliance of US, European and Guatemalan archaeologists working with Guatemala’s Mayan Heritage and Nature Foundation. The study estimates that roughly 10 million people may have lived within the Maya Lowlands, meaning that kind of massive food production might have been needed. “That is two to three times more [inhabitants] than people were saying there were,” said Marcello A Canuto, a professor of anthropology at Tulane University. Researchers used a mapping technique called Lidar, which stands for light detection and ranging. It bounces pulsed laser light off the ground, revealing contours hidden by dense foliage. The images revealed that the Mayans altered the landscape in a much broader way than previously thought; in some areas, 95% of available land was cultivated. “Their agriculture is much more intensive and therefore sustainable than we thought, and they were cultivating every inch of the land,” said Francisco Estrada-Belli, a research assistant professor at Tulane University, noting the ancient Mayas partly drained swampy areas that haven’t been considered worth farming since. The extensive defensive fences, ditch-and-rampart systems and irrigation canals suggest a highly organised workforce. “There’s state involvement here, because we see large canals being dug that are re-directing natural water flows,” said Thomas Garrison, assistant professor of anthropology at Ithaca College in New York. The 810 square miles (2,100 square kilometers) of mapping done vastly expands the area that was intensively occupied by the Maya, whose culture flourished between roughly 1,000 BC and 900 AD. Their descendants still live in the region. The mapping detected about 60,000 individual structures, including four major Mayan ceremonial centres with plazas and pyramids. Garrison said that this year he went to the field with the Lidar data to look for one of the roads revealed. “I found it, but if I had not had the Lidar and known that that’s what it was, I would have walked right over it, because of how dense the jungle is.” He noted that unlike some other ancient cultures, whose fields, roads and outbuildings have been destroyed by subsequent generations of farming, the jungle grew over abandoned Maya fields and structures, both hiding and preserving them. “The jungle, which has hindered us in our discovery efforts for so long, has actually worked as this great preservative tool of the impact the culture had across the landscape,” noted Garrison, who worked on the project and specialises in the city of El Zotz, near Tikal. Lidar revealed a previously undetected structure between the two sites that Garrison says “can’t be called anything other than a Maya fortress”. “It’s this hilltop citadel that has these ditch and rampart systems ... when I went there, one of these things [was] nine meters tall,” he noted. In a way, the structures were hiding in plain sight. “As soon as we saw this we all felt a little sheepish,” said Canuto said of the Lidar images, “because these were things that we had been walking over all the time.”
Helen Kadirire • 8 July 2018 1:08PM • 0 comments HARARE - A health time bomb is ticking in Harare and Chitungwiza as sewage streams continue to flow through most suburbs despite efforts by both councils to fix sewer lines. A survey by the Daily News on Sunday showed that most burst sewers were in high density suburbs. Some residents and their associations felt shortchanged by the councils adding that they are now actually used to living with flowing sewage. Emily Chiutsi from Zengeza 4 said apart from sewage flowing in people’s yards and on the streets, they had no regular supply of water in Chitungwiza. She said residents had to grapple with erratic water supplies which made flushing in the toilet a challenge, hence compromising hygienic standards. “We see sewage flowing every day and have now become accustomed to it. “But our children are most at risk. They play in those dirty streams and come back home where there is no water which leaves them open to dangers of ingesting contaminated food,” Chiutsi said. Chitungwiza and Manyame Residents Association (Camera)director Marvellous Kumalo said the sewer reticulation system in Chitungwiza was now too old and can no longer sustain the population resulting in persistent sewer bursts aggravated by recurrent water shortages. He added that the sewer reticulation needs to be revamped and be in tandem with the current population growth. The Camera director said they always engage the council on this issue especially considering previous cholera and recent typhoid outbreaks. “The people are forced to resort to unhygienic methods of sewer disposal such as the bucket system or in some areas the use of septic tanks on residential stands as small as 300 square metres or less. This continues to expose residents to water borne diseases among other related illnesses.” “The long awaited Muda Dam project is also a priority so as to alleviate the water shortages in the town. Areas not linked to the sewer system need to be connected as a matter of urgency so as to suit the set urban standards,” he said. Residents in some of Harare’s suburbs said even if they report the sewage bursts to HCC the response is very slow or non-existent. “In Dzivaresekwa the case of burst sewage is now a common feature. It has become a part of us just like the absence of water is in Mabvuku. “What is most disturbing is... children playing close to the water coupled with uncollected refuse. It is no wonder we have typhoid and cholera incidents in Harare,” Omega Ziko said. She added the sewage streams can go for days without being cleared as council employees can either come to observe the bursts and go away or not respond to the reports at all. In other suburbs like Budiriro, bursts, according to the residents, occur when there is water supply from council. They claim that whenever their taps have water, a sewer pipe releases pressure and out flows the liquid human excreta. “Sometimes we can go for weeks without water and as soon as it comes and people start flushing their home toilets, the following morning residents have to put stepping stones to cross these sewer streams. “It’s really funny how these things work, but we have observed it for quite some time now,” Wiseman Kambuto said. Combined Harare Residents Association (Chra) said some of the burst sewers can go for three weeks unattended to yet they will have been reported. Chra claims that when the reports are made at the council district offices, residents are told that the bursts cannot be attended to because there is no transport. “Actions by council officials come at a time when the local authority has commissioned 25 NP 200 half-tonne trucks. In 2009 – 2010 Sinyoro Street and Tatenda Place in Dzivaresekwa were the epicentre of waterborne disease outbreaks which claimed lives due to unhygienic sanitary conditions caused by perennial sewage bursts,” Chra said. Last year, acting health services director Clement Duri admitted that disease outbreaks would continue to occur in Harare unless drivers such as burst sewers were addressed. According to the city’s overall performance review, HCC is discharging 60 megalitres (Ml) of sewer into the water daily. As such council was now working on reducing the effluent it discharges to 50 Ml per day through repairs and maintenance of sewer pipe sections.
As the world observed the Environment Day today, residents of Shimla continued to grapple with the worst-ever water crisis in the hill city’s history, a stark warning of what the consequences of degradation of natural resources can be. Despite the best efforts of the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) and other authorities, people are getting water only after a gap of three to four days. The severe water shortage raised its head during peak tourist season and has already hit the hospitality sector here. Reckless felling of trees, unplanned and illegal constructions have reduced the ‘queen of hills’ to a concrete jungle and drying up of water sources has plunged Shimla into this deep crisis. The town has faced water woes during the summer for past many years. But the crisis this year was unprecedented and experts attribute it to the degradation of environment. Shimla has been declared a ‘smokeless’ city where smoking in public is banned while the use of polythene and plastic is prohibited, but drying up of water sources and the receding snow line and forest cover have taken their toll. Snowfall during the winters has reduced drastically. This year there was a 72 per cent rain deficit and the town received scanty snowfall. As a result the perennial sources like springs have either dried up or in other cases usurped by land sharks. According to officials, the sources of Shimla Water Supply Scheme have plumbed to the lowest level with daily pumping coming down from 40 million litres per day (MLD) to 18 MLD out of which more than 15 percent goes waste due to leaking pipelines. The population of the town has reached about 1.80 lakh while a floating population of 80,000 to 1 lakh is added during the tourist season. And the water supply scheme virtually collapsed this summer. Multi-storied structures have come up in and around Shimla creating water shortage and parking problems but with political considerations leading to a push for regularising the illegal structures, an additional 20,000 water connections could be added, further worsening the situation. The government had amended the Town and Country planning Act but the High Court has struck down the amendment providing for regularising the illegal structure on “as is, where is” basis and the National Green tribunal has also banned all constructions in core areas in the town and restricted the height of the buildings. However, the government instead of implementing the orders of High Court and NGT has approached the NGT to give some relaxation to the affected people. “The court and NGT have come to the rescue of Shimla but the government appears to be siding with the violators which is not a good sign,” said a retired architect who wished not to be named.
A small Quebec town that was facing a $1-million lawsuit from an oil-and-gas exploration company for trying to protect its own water has won its court battle and could see half of its legal fees reimbursed by the Montreal-based company. The municipality of Ristigouche-Sud-Est has been waiting on this decision from Quebec's Superior Court since August 2013, when Gastem sued the municipality of 157 people. Mayor François Boulay said citizens have been worried and anxious for the past four years. He was relieved to see the judge ruled in their favour. "I can't hide this is a sweet moment," he said Wednesday after the ruling came down. Gastem obtained a drilling permit from the province in 2011 to search for oil and gas on Quebec's Baie-des-Chaleurs, where Ristigouche-Sud-Est is located. After residents started voicing their concerns about the impact the drilling could have on the municipality's drinking water, the town passed a bylaw in February 2013, setting clear rules. A two-kilometre distance had to be respected between drill sites and residents' wells. The bylaw also banned the introduction of any chemical substances into the soil. Gastem sold its drilling rights to Petrolia in 2013, one month before the lawsuit was filed in Superior Court. (CBC)After sending a formal notice, Gastem sued the municipality in August 2013, claiming $1.5 million dollars in damages, which was later lowered to $984,000. It argued the town adopted its bylaw hastily, illegally targeting the company and making it impossible for Gastem to pursue activities on the site, for which it had a valid permit. "Abusive" lawsuit Superior Court Justice Nicole Tremblay ruled the company should have tried to have the bylaw annulled before seeking any compensation. In her 16-page ruling, Tremblay said contrary to what Gastem argued in court, the town council was not pressured into passing this bylaw by environmentalists or forceful residents. "The town councillors did not act on a whim," she wrote. Tremblay said a municipality has the right to protect its territory based on the precautionary principle. Since there was no provincial law in place at the time defining the rules around water protection, Tremblay said the town was in its rights to apply its own bylaw. The judge ordered Gastem to reimburse 50 per cent of the legal fees Ristigouche-Sud-Est incurred, and an additional $10,000 to cover the fees for the public relations company the town hired. The town of Ristigouche-Sud-Est, in the Gaspé, was able to raise $330,000 in a crowdfunding campaign to cover its legal fees. (Geneviève Génier-Carrier/Radio-Canada) Jean-François Girard said it could make companies think twice before suing a municipality that stands in their way. "I think it sends a very important message," he said. Gastem has 30 days to reimburse the $164,000 sum, or to appeal the verdict. Gastem's Chairman and CEO Raymond Savoie said the company will take the time to review the ruling before commenting. Boulay said the lawsuit cost the town $370,000 in legal fees. "We raise our glass of water to all those who supported us," Boulay said. Then the leftover money will be donated to other similar causes, said Boulay. Despite his relief to see this chapter come to an end, he said the issue of water protection is far from settled in Quebec. "The risk is still there. The claims on our territory are still there," he said. Boulay said the province did little to nothing to support the town during the whole process. "I'm not even sure they were watching from the bleachers," he said. Gastem sold its permits to Petrolia in July 2013, before the lawsuit was even filed. Boulay said if the company showed up at its doorstep tomorrow, the new provincial law that came into effect in 2014 would have precedence over its municipal bylaw. Under Quebec's regulations, an oil exploration site must be at least 500 metres from a water source. Ristigouche-Sud-Est is on the south side of the Gaspé peninsula. (Radio-Canada) Boulay said this means Petrolia could very well decide to drill 510 metres from a well. That's why he joined a consortium of 364 municipalities that's demanding the province establish a two-kilometre residential buffer zone to protect homeowners from drilling. Boulay said the province has yet to answer the consortium's repeated requests, and said the mayors will be meeting in Drummondville on March 24 to establish a course of action. "We find it astounding that a minister can't give a clear answer to 364 municipalities." To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.
Downing and Montana Department of Environmental Quality construction manager Shellie Haaland recently surveyed the valley making up the headwaters of the Blackfoot River and the former site of the Mike Horse Mine and its tailings impoundment. It was here in 1975 that the impoundment’s berm collapsed in heavy rain, flushing up to 200,000 cubic yards of contaminated waste into the river that killed aquatic life for miles. With Mike Horse long shuttered and the mill and buildings that once stood there gone, in 2014 DEQ, in cooperation with the U.S. Forest Service and Montana Department of Justice, tapped funding under a settlement with Asarco to begin removing contamination from the site, transporting it to a repository a few miles away. Under the Asarco settlement, DEQ essentially took the lead on removing waste while DOJ is charged with the restoration end of the project. The Forest Service also has some jurisdiction where the project area goes onto federal land, and the agencies have worked in concert to decide on remediation and restoration plans. It is that mineralization that attracted miners to the area, and with cleanup now a top priority, DEQ has used it to their advantage when possible. As one example, Haaland explained the prevalence of manganese in the valley. Other heavy metals are attracted to manganese, so as water moves through it acts as a natural filtration system. Last year, state officials said they were taking a “pause” to determine next steps on the project. Several unexpected expenses ate into settlement funds, including discovery of previously unknown pipe releasing contamination, construction of a second haul road and an earthquake last year, which caused a pulse of contaminated water to go to the on-site water treatment plant.
Sweden has issued calls for emergency assistance from the European Union after wildfires broke out across the country during an extreme heatwave. Dozens of forest fires have swept the Nordic region, including in parts of the Arctic circle, prompting Stockholm to seek intervention from its neighbours to control the spread. Tens of thousands of people have been urged to stay indoors with windows and vents shut to avoid smoke inhalation. The country’s Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB) said two Italian firefighting planes had been sent to central Sweden and Norway dispatched six helicopters. But on Wednesday, authorities requested further assistance as close to 40 fires continued to rage across the region, according to local media. “The focus right now is on firefighting flights and we will see how we can use them in the best and most effective way during the day. We are following up with a request for more helicopters and water-bombing planes, and will see if there is the possibility of other countries providing support,” the MSB’s Britta Ramberg told news agency TT. Many Swedes take lengthy holidays in July but the MSB has asked staff to come back early to help with efforts to stop the fires spreading further. The wildfires are the worst the country has seen in 12 years, rescue officer Thomas Andersson told AFP. No casualties have been reported so far but the country remains “at very high risk of forest fire,” according to the European Commission. “The European Union stands in full solidarity with Sweden. Our thoughts are with all the people affected and also with first responders and the firefighters working to tackle the fires. I thank Italy for its immediate offer of two planes. This is solidarity in a Europe that protects” said commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management Christos Stylianides. “The drought has led to a large amount of simultaneous fires in the forests and land,” state emergency services operator SOS Alarm said in a statement. A map produced by the company showed 44 wildfires burning at 3pm on Wednesday, central European time. The call for help comes just days after Sweden’s national weather agency, the SMHI, issued a class-two alert for “extremely high temperatures”. Sweden and its Nordic neighbours have experienced an unprecedented heatwave in recent days, and with temperatures forecast to remain above 30C the risk of more fires remains high. Central parts of the country, including Örebro, Västmanland, Södermanland, Uppsala and Stockholm, are among some of the worst hit areas, with fires raging in bone dry forests. Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds. It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment. The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
BEIRUT/AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian rebels launched a major offensive on Sunday that brought them close to the heart of the Old City of Damascus, and government forces responded with intense bombardments of rebel-held areas. The escalation, reported by witnesses, state TV, rebel sources, and a monitoring group, marked a bid by the rebels to relieve army pressure on besieged areas they control to the east of the capital. Moderate Free Syrian Army (FSA) and jihadist groups were both involved in the assault on the districts of Jobar and Abbasiyin, some 2 km (1.2 miles) east of the Old City walls. Syrian state television said the army had repelled an infiltration attempts by the militants and bombarded them with artillery, inflicting heavy losses. Witnesses said the army deployed tanks in some adjacent neighborhoods, and troops could be seen patrolling on foot. “The streets are empty and the army has despatched dozens of troops in the streets, and tanks are being moved. The sounds of mortars from Jobar have not stopped,” said a resident of the nearby Tijara district, who asked not to be named. Another witness said most shops had closed in areas close to the fighting, as people fled further away from the clashes. Heavy explosions rang out in the background as state TV broadcast live from Abbasiyin square, a usually teeming area that seemed to be deserted of traffic and pedestrians. With the recapture of the city of Aleppo last December, President Bashar al-Assad’s army reinforced its dominant position across most of the country. Since then it has been trying to break down rebel resistance in Damascus and reassert full control of the capital after six years of war. The army and its militias have for months been targeting Eastern Ghouta, the biggest remaining rebel bastion near Damascus, while making only incremental gains. Rebel sources said their attack on parts of Jobar, which they held for a time in 2013, was in response to their loss of ground in Qaboun and Barza, two other districts to the north. “This is to relieve the pressure on rebels, with the regime not stopping its bombardment and artillery shelling on our people,” Abu Abdo, a commander from rebel group Failaq al Rahman said via internet messaging, adding that the aim was to link up Jobar with Qaboun. He said the rebel operation had included two suicide bombings launched by Tahrir al Sham, a coalition of jihadist groups whose backbone is the former al Qaeda affiliate Nusra Front. The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war, said rebels had captured several industrial sites and buildings between Jobar and Qaboun after launching their surprise attack. An official of Ahrar al-Sham rebel group said the capture of large swathes of the industrial area that has long been an army line of defense for the capital could help a bid to push deeper into the heart of the capital in coming days. The Observatory said rebel shells hit several districts, and government warplanes pounded the Jobar area in response. At least 30 raids were conducted and hundreds of surface-to-surface missiles targeted rebel-held areas. Another rebel fighter acknowledged army advances in the last two days toward a major road between Qaboun and Barza had been a big blow. The capture of that road would sever the link between the two besieged rebel districts, where tens of thousands of people live and would force the hands of rebels to agree to deals worked out elsewhere that force them to pull back to northern Syria. The deals are viewed by rebels as forcibly displacing people who oppose Assad after years of bombardment and siege. “Taking this road would isolate Barza and Qaboun completely and with a security belt around it,” said Abu Abdullah, another fighter with Failaq al Rahman.7 Rebels said several factions in Eastern Ghouta, including the dominant Jaish al-Islam group, were sending reinforcements to Jobar to help rebels maintain the momentum of the assault.
House-shopping millionaires can almost always have their pick when it comes to real estate, whether it's a sprawling Georgia manor or space in a ritzy D.C. suburb. But a new mega-mansion is soon to hit the market with a price tag only the super rich can afford: $500 million. When it goes on sale, it will become the most expensive house in the United States, eclipsing the Chartwell estate, known as the setting of "The Beverly Hillbillies" and currently on the market for $350 million. Dubbed "The One," the 100,000-square-foot estate, located in Los Angeles' Bel-Air neighborhood, was designed by luxury real estate developer Nile Niami, who set out to build the most extravagant home in the U.S. Construction on the house began in 2013 and is expected to finish next year. However, Niami gave CNBC's "Secret Lives of the Super Rich" exclusive access to the building site. The opulent structure sits high above L.A. on four acres of land, offering incomparable views of the city's skyline. "In one eye-line, you have from downtown L.A. to the ocean to The Getty [museum]," Niami tells Robert Frank of "Secret Lives." Take a look inside, via computer-generated renderings of what the finished product will look like. The building will only feature the highest-quality materials, including a mountain's worth of marble. Once completed, "The One" will also go above and beyond the classic amenities of a mega-mansion. Residents can curl up with a book in the glass-encased library or perfect their bowling game at the home's private four-lane alley. When the mansion is completed, he's confident the right buyer will scoop it up. "There's a lot of people out there with a lot of money — they want something no one else can have," Niami says. "This is it."
The Selous Game Reserve in Tanzania is one of the last major expanses of wilderness in Africa. It's a protectedUNESCO World Heritage Site about the size of Switzerland, and home to elephants, lions, giraffes, cheetahs and rhinos, as well as 12 percent of all endangered African wild dogs. But the nature reserve is under threat. Since 2014, it has been on UNESCO's List of World Heritage in Danger, primarily because of elephant poaching. In less than 40 years, the park lost 90 percent of its elephants. But a planned hydropower dam could have an even more devastating impact. Power generation vs. conservation Tanzania has an electricity problem. According to the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), only 10 percent of households in Tanzania have access to the national grid. To meet the country's energy needs, the Tanzanian government is planning to build a huge hydropower dam on the Rufiji River, in the heart of the protected Selous Game Reserve. The plan is expected to provide the country with an additional 2,100 megawatts of electricity. Reaching 130 meters (427 feet) in height and stretching 700 meters across the Stiegler Canyon, the dam is to create a 1,500 square kilometers (463 square mile) lake. An area roughly twice the size of Berlin would vanish under water. Conservation organizations, including the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), as well as the UNESCO World Heritage Committee (WHC), have raised concerns since plans for the dam were released in 2009, and have consistently called for the project to be abandoned. The IUCN called the project "fatally flawed," while the WHC expressed its "utmost concern," saying the dam project has a "high likelihood of [causing] serious and irreversible damage." A threat to wildlife and livelihoods "It's a huge threat," Johannes Kirchgatter, officer for the Africa Program for WWF Germany, told DW. "The dam would destroy one of the most important habitats for wildlife and the heart of the game reserve, where most of the animals roam, especially in the dry season. It would open up that whole area for industrialization, infrastructure and settlements." "It's absolutely horrible to imagine that in the middle of this pristine wilderness a huge dam is being built," he added. "If you're standing in the middle of Selous now, it's a fantastic wilderness, there is wildlife all over, and all of that would be gone… It would be a great loss for us and the generations to come." And it's not just Tanzania's wildlife and ecosystems that are at stake. Local livelihoods could suffer, too. The Rufiji, Tanzania's largest river, crosses Selous for 600 kilometers (370 miles) and flows into the Indian Ocean. According to a WWF report, the dam would trap most of an estimated 16.6 million tons of sediment and nutrients carried by the river every year, leading to soil erosion and cutting off lakes and farmland downstream. The Rufiji delta, home to fish, shrimp and prawn fisheries, as well as the largest mangrove forest in East Africa, would also be starved of water. All in all, the construction of the dam could damage the livelihoods of over 200,000 farmers and fishermen, according to the WWF. Tourism at stake The proposed dam could also impact one of Tanzania's biggest sources of income: tourism. The country's natural attractions – including the Serengeti National Park and Mount Kilimanjaro – draw over a million tourists each year and generate 17 percent of its GDP. Selous alone generates more than 5 million euros ($6 million) a year. But the dam would be built in the area that's of most interest for tourists. "It's where you see the most wildlife and where you have the most varied landscape," Kirchgatter, who has visited Selous many times, said. Selous is also well-located as a gateway to the south of the country, which has so far been neglected by tourists – something the government wants to change. It recently invested in new airplanes, and is receiving an infrastructure loan from the World Bank to boost tourism in southern Tanzania, including the Selous Game Reserve. "If Selous is destroyed and all of the potential for tourism there is destroyed, then the tourism for the southern half of the country will also greatly be damaged," Kirchgatter said. Logging imminent The Tanzanian government rejects this criticism. When WWF published its report in 2017, tourism minister Jumanne Maghembe insisted the hydropower was needed to transform Tanzania's economy. Tanzania's President John Magufuli, who was elected in 2015 in part on his record of successful road and infrastructure building, said the dam and resulting reservoir would cover only 3 percent of the Selous, adding that he would not listen to detractors who spoke "without facts." Now, he has officially announced that construction will begin this July. The Tanzanian government is currently looking for investors. According to WWF, funding for the dam has not yet been secured and it's unclear which companies will even build the dam. Yet the government is pushing ahead to fell more than 2.6 million trees from the area that would be flooded by the dam. According to the WWF, Tanzania's forestry authority just closed a bidding competition for the logging. "The Tanzanian government wants to create facts on the ground," Kirchgatter said. "They want to show that they are determined to build this dam and are able to develop the country." Under Tanzanian law, logging in game reserves is prohibited and a dam can only be built after a proper environmental impact assessment, which has not been completed, according to the WWF. Building a dam in a World Heritage Site would also be violating UNESCO regulations. "It's not even clear whether they will manage to build the damn. But the logging will already completely destroy a huge protected wildlife area, whether the dam will be built in the end or not," Kirchgatter said. The government's own energy plan shows there isn't really an urgent need for this dam, according to Kirchgatter. "There are plenty of alternatives, such as solar power and wind power," he said. Investing in the latter would have the advantage of reducing the country's dependence on a single river system that could easily be affected by drought. A more decentralized energy system would also be more cost-efficient, according to Kirchgatter. "One huge power plant in the middle of nowhere needs a lot of infrastructure. Billions of dollars would need to be spent to develop this dam, which could be invested in a much better and more sustainable way," he said. "But of course mega projects are often more sexy for governments. They are more visible, create jobs and it's easier to push for one mega project than look into alternatives." One of the winners of the 2018 German-Africa Prize is Tanzanian environmentalist Gerald Bigurube, a former head of Tanzania's National Parks Authority. His voice is among those saying: "Let's talk about the use of the game reserve before we establish facts that can no longer be changed." Kirchgatter hopes conservationists around the world can convince the Tanzanian government not to build the dam and explore alternatives instead. "There is still a chance we can stop this," he said. "Time is running out but we have to act now before this precious area is completely destroyed."
ISLAMABAD: For the first time in the history of Pakistan, the water level at Tarbela Dam has reached its dead level in the month of July ‘during monsoon season’. Never witnessed this critical water shortage state, the Indus River System Authority (Irsa) spokesperson Khalid Rana told The Express Tribune that by “Saturday night Tarbela Dam would reach its dead level”. Till Saturday evening there was some amount of water left in the dam but by night it would finish, he maintained. The situation clearly reflects that water situation in Pakistan is getting critical even during rainy season, Irsa spokesperson said. Rains lash Faisalabad, Sargodha The main reason behind this critical situation is no good rainfall in the catchment areas of the dam during last monsoon spell, he added. “This year monsoon season started in the country well on time but it moved in a bit different direction than its routine pathway, due to which the catchment areas did not receive good showers,” said Rana. Meanwhile, talking about Mangla Dam, he said that on Saturday the water storage level in the dam was 1,123.70 feet against its dead level of 1,050 feet but it has also started depleting. However, talking about overall water storage in the country, Rana said, last year in July at this time water storage level was 7 million acres feet (MAF) but this year it stands at 0.8 to one million acres feet (MAF), he said. “The recent spell of monsoon showers had helped to bring slight improvement in water level in Mangla Dam, but it has also started depleting and it is expected that it will also reach critical level during next eight to ten days,” he said. He hoped that the coming spell of monsoon, which is expected to start from July 10-11, will help overcome water shortage issue.
Cape Town is in the unenviable situation of being the first major city in the modern era to face the threat of running out of drinking water. However, the plight of the drought-hit South African city is just one extreme example of a problem that experts have long been warning about - water scarcity. Despite covering about 70% of the Earth's surface, water, especially drinking water, is not as plentiful as one might think. Only 3% of it is fresh. Over one billion people lack access to water and another 2.7 billion find it scarce for at least one month of the year. A 2014 survey of the world's 500 largest cities estimates that one in four are in a situation of "water stress" According to UN-endorsed projections, global demand for fresh water will exceed supply by 40% in 2030, thanks to a combination of climate change, human action and population growth. You might also be interested in: It shouldn't be a surprise, then, that Cape Town is just the tip of the iceberg. Here are the other 11 cities most likely to run out of water. 1. São Paulo Brazil's financial capital and one of the 10 most populated cities in the world went through a similar ordeal to Cape Town in 2015, when the main reservoir fell below 4% capacity. At the height of the crisis, the city of over 21.7 million inhabitants had less than 20 days of water supply and police had to escort water trucks to stop looting. It is thought a drought that affected south-eastern Brazil between 2014 and 2017 was to blame, but a UN mission to São Paulo was critical of the state authorities "lack of proper planning and investments". The water crisis was deemed "finished" in 2016, but in January 2017 the main reserves were 15% below expected for the period - putting the city's future water supply once again in doubt. 2. Bangalore Local officials in the southern Indian city have been bamboozled by the growth of new property developments following Bangalore's rise as a technological hub and are struggling to manage the city's water and sewage systems. To make matters worse, the city's antiquated plumbing needs an urgent upheaval; a report by the national government found that the city loses over half of its drinking water to waste. Like China, India struggles with water pollution and Bangalore is no different: an in-depth inventory of the city's lakes found that 85% had water that could only be used for irrigation and industrial cooling. Not a single lake had suitable water for drinking or bathing. Will Cape Town be the first city to run out of water? 3. Beijing The World Bank classifies water scarcity as when people in a determined location receive less than 1,000 cubic metres of fresh water per person a year. In 2014, each of the more than 20 million inhabitants of Beijing had only 145 cubic metres. China is home to almost 20% of the world's population but has only 7% of the world's fresh water. A Columbia University study estimates that the country's reserves declined 13% between 2000 and 2009. And there's also a pollution problem. Official figures from 2015 showed that 40% of Beijing's surface water was polluted to the point of not being useful even for agriculture or industrial use. The Chinese authorities have tried to address the problem by creating massive water diversion projects. They have also introduced educational programmes, as well as price hikes for heavy business users. 4. Cairo Once crucial to the establishment of one of the world's greatest civilisations, the River Nile is struggling in modern times. It is the source of 97% of Egypt's water but also the destination of increasing amounts of untreated agricultural, and residential waste. World Health Organization figures show that Egypt ranks high among lower middle-income countries in terms of the number of deaths related to water pollution. The UN estimates critical shortages in the country by 2025. 5. Jakarta Like many coastal cities, the Indonesian capital faces the threat of rising sea levels. But in Jakarta the problem has been made worse by direct human action. Because less than half of the city's 10 million residents have access to piped water, illegal digging of wells is rife. This practice is draining the underground aquifers, almost literally deflating them. As a consequence, about 40% of Jakarta now lies below sea level, according to World Bank estimates. To make things worse, aquifers are not being replenished despite heavy rain because the prevalence of concrete and asphalt means that open fields cannot absorb rainfall. 6. Moscow One-quarter of the world's fresh water reserves are in Russia, but the country is plagued by pollution problems caused by the industrial legacy of the Soviet era. That is specifically worrying for Moscow, where the water supply is 70% dependent on surface water. Official regulatory bodies admit that 35% to 60% of total drinking water reserves in Russia do not meet sanitary standards 7. Istanbul According to official Turkish government figures, the country is technically in a situation of a water stress, since the per capita supply fell below 1,700 cubic metres in 2016. Local experts have warned that the situation could worsen to water scarcity by 2030. In recent years, heavily populated areas like Istanbul (14 million inhabitants) have begun to experience shortages in the drier months. The city's reservoir levels declined to less than 30 percent of capacity at the beginning of 2014. 8. Mexico City Water shortages are nothing new for many of the 21 million inhabitants of the Mexican capital. One in five get just a few hours from their taps a week and another 20% have running water for just part of the day. The city imports as much as 40% of its water from distant sources but has no large-scale operation for recycling wastewater. Water losses because of problems in the pipe network are also estimated at 40%. 9. London Of all the cities in the world, London is not the first that springs to mind when one thinks of water shortages. The reality is very different. With an average annual rainfall of about 600mm (less than the Paris average and only about half that of New York), London draws 80% of its water from rivers (the Thames and Lea). According to the Greater London Authority, the city is pushing close to capacity and is likely to have supply problems by 2025 and "serious shortages" by 2040. It looks likely that hosepipe bans could become more common in the future. 10. Tokyo The Japanese capital enjoys precipitation levels similar to that of Seattle on the US west coast, which has a reputation for rain. Rainfall, however, is concentrated during just four months of the year. That water needs to be collected, as a drier-than-expected rainy season could lead to a drought. At least 750 private and public buildings in Tokyo have rainwater collection and utilisation systems. Home to more than 30 million people, Tokyo has a water system that depends 70% on surface water (rivers, lakes, and melted snow). Recent investment in the pipeline infrastructure aims also to reduce waste by leakage to only 3% in the near future. 11. Miami The US state of Florida is among the five US states most hit by rain every year. However, there is a crisis brewing in its most famous city, Miami. An early 20th Century project to drain nearby swamps had an unforeseen result; water from the Atlantic Ocean contaminated the Biscayne Aquifer, the city's main source of fresh water. Although the problem was detected in the 1930s, seawater still leaks in, especially because the American city has experienced faster rates of sea level rise, with water breaching underground defence barriers installed in recent decades. Neighbouring cities are already struggling. Hallandale Beach, which is just a few miles north of Miami, had to close six of its eight wells due to saltwater intrusion.
“Garbage mounds at the Ghazipur landfill site (in Delhi) will one day touch the height of Qutub Minar and red beacon light will have to be used to ward off the aircraft.” —The Supreme Court of India It’s like a throbbing, reclining ogre, with smoke bellowing out of its many crevices and an unbearable stench seeping into everything surrounding it. Hawks and eagles hover over its dark grey slimy bulk, picking up rotting flesh and melting bones. This is the Bhalaswa landfill at the entrance of India’s capital. If you are driving into Delhi from the north, through the Karnal highway, this is the first sight that will greet you. Or if you are coming down from the verdant hills of Uttarakhand, passing the vast, fertile Gangetic plains of western Uttar Pradesh with its golden fields, the toppling mountain of garbage of the Ghazipur landfill on the left is the sign that you are about to enter Delhi. Photos: Jitender Gupta; Editing: Suraj Wadhwa It is the city’s greatest problem: solid waste management. The Bhalaswa landfill is where most of north and west Delhi’s garbage is brought and dumped—the main reason why the Supreme Court came down heavily on the administration early this month, saying the city “would go down under garbage one day”. The court, while ordering all states and union territories to frame policies for the disposal of solid waste, singled out the Ghazipur landfill as the most obnoxious. As you climb atop one of the landfills, or ‘dumping grounds’, a post-apocalyptic hell greets you. First to assault one’s senses is the stomach-churning odour of rotting waste, even before one can see the garbage strewn around—in mountains of waste or peeping out from the ground where it was buried a while back. Vultures swarm around on top of the dump, while hounds mark their territory on ground. The methane emitted from the waste causes fires every few metres, which are either let to stew or doused hurriedly by an employee of the municipal corporation. This is Amit Pratap’s everyday workplace. A Dalit emplo­yee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Amit has been working on the Bhalaswa landfill for more than 15 years now, directing trucks of garbage into the landfill. It may look like a simple job, but it’s 300-400 trucks every day. Each truck carries around six tonnes of waste collected from dumping points around the northern parts of Delhi—­that’s more than 1,800 tonnes. “We get all sorts of waste material here; from clothes to industrial waste to household garbage and plastics,” says Amit, pointing out that there is no mechanism for segregation of waste at source in the city. The health risks run by Amit and others like him are almost catastrophic for them and their families. Amit, for instance, suffers from severe respiratory issues and has required three operations already to be able to make it to work every day. “Each operation cost above Rs 1 lakh. With barely anything in the name of health insurance, we had to sell off our belongings,” he says, and goes on to recount the story of a co-worker, who collapsed after fits of coughing while working in the landfill. “He was rushed to the hospital. They found almost three kilos of dust and mud in his lungs when they operated on him.” Delhi produces around 8,300 metric tonnes of waste every day—that’s the official figure, while most exp­erts, including government officials, peg it closer to 10,000 metric tonnes. What happens to all this waste? All this waste is dumped in three major landfills—Bhalaswa for north and west Delhi, Ghazipur for east and Okhla for south. It’s the most primitive method of managing waste—dumping them outside city limits—and even the Harappan civilisation knew better ways. The problem is not simply lack of land; the rot goes deeper. As the amount of waste grows, there’s less funds available to treat it. Add to this a serious lack of innovative technology to treat solid waste, and the landfills only grow every day. The Supreme Court judges may have exaggerated when they said the landfills would one day touch Qutub Minar’s height—73 metres—but only slightly. How big the mountain of trash has grown is indeed shocking—the Bhalaswa landfill, the biggest in Delhi, today stands at roughly 55 metres, almost double the prescribed height. “The MCD (Municipal Corporation of Delhi) laws don’t mention the maximum height of the landfills, but international standards dictate that such landfills cannot exceed 25 to 30 metres,” says a ground engineer at the site, who wished to remain unnamed. And not just height, their capacity to hold waste has been far exceeded. For example, the Bhalaswa landfill, used since 1994, reached its waste limit in 2007 with an estimated 15 million tonnes—roughly the weight of 10 Nimitz -class nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the biggest in the world. The city’s oldest landfill—in Ghazipur and used since 1984—reached its limit in 2004. In fact, no landfills have been made according to the regulations and norms required for their construction. They don’t have an impervious membrane lining the base of the landfill to ensure that the toxins from the landfill don’t seep into the soil and contaminate the water. Such measures are standard procedures in landfills across the world, like in the US and China. According to Dr Manoj Datta, a solid waste management exp­ert teaching at IIT-Delhi, the landfills lack proper designated wells to collect the leachate and methane emissions, and have steep slopes resulting in a lack of stability, making them dangerous. Last year, the Ghazipur landfill collapsed under its own weight, killing two people. “The landfills were created at a time where attention was not paid to such details and we are now facing its consequences,” says Datta. The main reason for the failure to contain such landfills is the rapid unplanned development around them, says Pradeep Khandelwal, chief engineer, East Delhi Municipal Corporation. “More than 75 per cent of the area around such landfills is now occupied by unauthorised colonies, inhabited by people who make a living out of the landfills,” he says. While Ghazipur banned rag-pickers from ent­ering the landfills after the fatal accident, the settlements around Bhalaswa are almost solely dependent on col­lecting garbage and selling it. Moreover, the lack of an efficient system for segregation of waste at source has complicated the issues of managing waste. “More than 30 per cent of the waste this city generates is inert material, including construction waste, while about 50 per cent is biodegradable. Both need to be treated very differently,” says Datta. The original idea behind creating these landfills was that the waste collected would be burned in a furnace to produce electricity. Though Delhi has three waste-to-energy plants near the landfills in Ghazipur, Okhla and Narela, there have been no means to manage them since the trifurcation of the MCD in 2012, leaving them almost idle. Bhalaswa doesn’t even have one despite getting the most garbage per day in the city. No wonder only a negligible amount of electricity has been produced from the waste in Delhi’s landfills. The Ghazipur plant produces 12 MW from about 2,000 tonnes of garbage, while the Okhla one has a capacity to produce 12 MW from 1,200 tonnes. This is painfully low—a typical household uses about 27 kW of energy every day, so 12MW isn’t even enough to provide electricity to 50 households a day, in a city of 36.26 lakh households. In fact, waste-to-energy plants may already be an outmo­ded concept to dispose off garbage as the waste is burned to produce energy. Now, there is a school of thought that believes burning this waste is environmentally hazardous (See page 42). Researchers and specialists have suggested several other ways to deal with the issue based on international practices, but most have been just trashed. One of the most effective ways followed by several countries, including Ireland and ­Japan, is incineration plants that burn the waste to ash, which is then sold and put to other uses, such as construction of roads. “Such a method aims at reducing the volume of waste by over 70 per cent,” says a scientist working closely with the government. “This method requires the segregation of inert material from other biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. If this is done in Delhi, it is certainly possible to use the waste for infrastructure projects such as laying roads.” This, along with more waste-to-energy plants, can bring down the city’s waste by 30 per cent, but it is impossible to implement until waste is segregated into dry and wet. A study by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Central Road Research Institute suggests the use of construction waste in the building of roads and highways around Delhi to find a solution for the steep growth in inert material—i.e. the malba a builder leaves behind at a construction site after the building is complete. NHAI said it could use this humungous inert waste to widen NH-24 into a 14-lane expressway. A memorandum of understanding too was signed between the Delhi government and NHAI in 2016, but the project is yet to take off, though the work on the expressway is in full force. So far, the various measures to improve the condition of ­­the dumping grounds have fallen flat. To begin with, putting in safeguards and making improvements need a lot of funds, but Delhi’s east and north municipal corporations run up a debt of between Rs 500-600 crore every year. The MCD mostly functions on grants by the central government—barely enough to meet its salary bills. “To put in safeguards at the landfills now, say a gas tank and an impervious membrane, would cost the government close to Rs 2,000 crore per landfill. Who is going to fund this?” asks an MCD officer. In 2016, the Supreme Court asked all states and union territories to formulate and implement frameworks for solid waste management, including segregation of waste at source along with building more waste-to-energy plants for systematic disposal of waste. Yet, the bylaws required to start implementing such regulations were only prepared by the Delhi government this January. “We have been sitting on the order for the past two years,” an MCD official tells Outlook on the condition of anonymity. “None of the directives could be implemented since the state had not made the bylaws required. Now, the Supreme Court has yet again passed orders in very strong language. But one can only guess when they will be implemented.” The official’s cynicism is understandable. The recent Supreme Court order may have been scathing, but is it going to shake anybody? Delhi’s landfills are a disaster waiting to happen, and the municipal corporations and the government have to act urgently. A holistic approach to manage the waste is the way out, with enough funds released quickly to implement the plans. Or else, as the Supreme Court warned, it won’t be long before Delhi got buried under its waste.
In one of the most arid regions in the world a series of carefully constructed, spiralling holes form lines across the landscape. Known as puquios, their origin has been a puzzle – one that could only be solved from space. The holes are from the Nasca region of Peru – an area famous for the Nasca lines, several enormous geometric images carved into the landscape; immaculate archaeological evidence of ceremonial burials; and the rapid decline of this once flourishing society. What adds to the intrigue in the native ancient people of Nasca is how they were able to survive in an area where droughts can last for years at a time. The puquios were a “sophisticated hydraulic system constructed to retrieve water from underground aquifers,” says Rosa Lasaponara of the Institute of Methodologies for Environmental Analysis, in Italy. And they transformed this inhospitable region. Lasaponara and her team studied the puquios using satellite imaging. From this, the team were able to better understand how the puquios were distributed across the Nasca region, and where they ran in relation to nearby settlements – which are easier to date. “What is clearly evident today is that the puquio system must have been much more developed than it appears today,” says Lasaponara. “Exploiting an inexhaustible water supply throughout the year the puquio system contributed to an intensive agriculture of the valleys in one of the most arid places in the world.” A series of canals brought the water, trapped underground, to the areas where it was needed; anything left was stored in surface reservoirs. To help keep it moving, chimneys were excavated above the canals in the shape of corkscrewing funnels. These funnels let wind into the canals, which forced the water through the system. “The puquios were the most ambitious hydraulic project in the Nasca area and made water available for the whole year, not only for agriculture and irrigation but also for domestic needs,” says Lasaponara, who has written about her satellite studies in Ancient Nasca World: New Insights from Science and Archaeology, which is due to be published later this year. The origin of the puquios has remained a mystery to researchers because it was not possible to use traditional carbon dating techniques on the tunnels. Nor did the Nasca leave any clues as to their origin. Like many other South American cultures they had no writing system. Their existence tells us something remarkable about the people who lived in the Nasca region from before 1,000 BC to AD750. “The construction of the puquios involved the use of particularly specialised technology,” says Lasaponara. Not only did the builders of the puquios need a deep understanding of the geology of the area and annual variations in water availability, maintaining the canals was a technical challenge as they spread across tectonic faults. “What is really impressive is the great efforts, organisation and cooperation required for their construction and regular maintenance,” she says. That meant a regular dependable water supply for centuries, in an area that’s one of the most arid places on Earth. “Maintenance was likely based on a collaborative and socially organised system, similar to that adopted for the construction of the famous ’Nasca lines‘ which in some cases are clearly related to the presence of water.” The quality of construction was so good, that some of the puquios still function today. These structures show the native people of the Nasca basin were not only highly organised, but that their society was structured in a hierarchy, says Lasaponara. She says the puquios were vital in “controlling water distribution by those in power over the communities that came under their influence.” Knowing how to bring water to one of the driest places on earth means that you hold the very key to life itself. William Park is BBC Future’s social media producer. He is @williamhpark on Twitter.
The remainder of an ancient sea at the heart of South America is fast becoming a memory: a white expanse of salt stretches for miles, with just a smear of red, brackish water at its southern edge. Lake Poopó was once Bolivia’s second largest body of water, but when asked how to get to the lake today, locals correct a visitor. “You mean the ex-lake; the salt flat,” says Arminda Choque, 23, as she waits outside a mobile dental clinic in Llapallapani, a community of crumbling adobe-and-thatch houses inhabited by the indigenous Urus-Muratos, who have lived off the lake’s abundant fish since time immemorial. “I want my children to leave and go to college. There’s no future for them here.” The high-altitude lake – habitat to some 200 species of birds, mammals and fish – had always fluctuated in size. But in recent years, the droughts became longer. In November 2014, millions of fish and birds suddenly perished, rotting where they lay. By late 2015, the lake which had once covered 2,400 sq km, dried up completely, seemingly for good. Many blamed the catastrophe on global climate change. Now, abandoned fishing boats rust and splinter on the burning salt, amid skeins of desiccated fishing nets and grubby flamingo feathers. In the village of Villa Ñeque, stranded inland years ago, Vicente Valero, 48, doubts it’s worth repairing his staved-in canoe. “The water used to come up to here,” Valero says. He recalls week-long voyages; sleeping under the stars in his skiff; casting sweets into the water as a Lenten offering. “Now we’re raising animals and growing quinoa. The first few harvests have been poor,” he admits. The Urus are not natural farmers, says Apolinar Flores, a legal expert with Cepa, a local NGO. The Urus “never traditionally held more than a scrap of land”: they fished, hunted and bartered. Those who now try to grow food among their indigenous Aymara neighbours often face discrimination and poverty. Many have migrated to nearby towns, typically to work as day-labourers. Some have found a measure of success, and cite revived cultural links with the larger Uru-Chipaya group to the west. But others are forced to relocate further. With barely 800 Urus-Muratos left living around Lake Poopó, and their culture fundamentally based around fishing, some fear that one the oldest societies in the Americas could also vanish. “The death of the lake is killing people’s hope for their futures in the region,” says Clayton Whitt, a Vancouver-based anthropologist. “It’s too terrible to contemplate.” In the dusty town of Colchani, 150km (93 miles) south, Aureliano Mauricio Valero, 42, his wife and daughter scoop salt into plastic bags. Outside on the dazzling Uyuni salt flat, a few dozen former neighbours hack grey-white bricks out of the ground by hand. “Between the three of us, we can do 5,000 bags a day,” he says, earning 125 bolivianos (£14). Mauricio used to work here during the lake’s previous dry spells, but when he returned two months ago with his family, it was for good. He remembers fishing as a boy and casting his nets through the night. “We enjoyed working,” he says. “Our work is Lake Poopó, and with that dried up, we’re like orphans.” A sprinkling of rain early this year briefly refilled part of the lake, only to rapidly evaporate within weeks. Yet there is growing recognition that rising temperatures alone are not to blame. Water withdrawals for irrigation from upstream rivers reduce the lake’s size, says Tom Perreault, a geographer at Syracuse University. The huge amount of water used by nearby mines, and the contamination they produce, also has a catastrophic effect, Perreault added. On a visit to the state-owned Huanuni tin mine, Bolivia’s largest, the Guardian observed mining waste being dumped directly into the Huanuni river. The tributary, a sickly yellow colour, flows downhill to Lake Poopó. The leftwing government of Evo Morales has “blamed climate change exclusively for the lake’s disappearance, while ignoring the other factors”, Perreault told the Guardian via email. This allows it “to cast blame on industrialized countries, mostly the US, [and] avoid taking any responsibility for the lake’s drying or rehabilitation”. An EU-funded €14m programme operational during 2010-15 “seemed to only nibble around the edges of the lake’s major problems”, says Whitt. The programme’s office in the government building in Oruro is shuttered. Nextdoor, its former head, water engineer Eduardo Ortiz, says that he doubts its funding will be renewed. When asked what measures it took, he removes his glasses and starts to cry. “We didn’t have the resources or the remit to make a difference … and now even my friends blame me for not saving the lake,” he says. Recent government action involves river dredging and pollution containment efforts, but few think they will be enough. Morales is unlikely to enforce regulations that could hurt the region’s miners, a key component of his support. “Even if the lake does recover, there may be very few people still in the Urus communities to benefit,” says Perreault. Some want the cautionary tale of Lake Poopó to be applied to the larger Lake Titicaca, itself under threat. Others still hold out hope of sailing the lake again. “We’re fishermen,” says Mauricio. “And when there’s fish, there’s work.”
Duplin County, North Carolina The first thing Violet Branch does when she wakes up is to inhale through her nose to see whether the smell of hog excrement from across the street has seeped into her home again. “Sometimes when I wake up the odor is in the house. Sometimes before I go to bed, the odor is in the house,” says Branch, 71, who lives next door to a swine farmer who keeps two lakes filled with a swampy mixture of feces and urine that he periodically spreads on his crops as fertilizer. An acrid odor of rotting eggs fills her yard at least twice a week and occasionally her home, giving her nausea and on some occasions causing her to vomit. All she can do is wait until it passes or ask her son who lives next door to drive her to the nearby Walmart where she paces the aisles until her breathing returns to normal. Branch, wearing tiger-striped reading glasses and a mustard-colored sweatshirt, sits in the kitchen of her small one-story home crowded with pictures of her grandchildren and her parents who ran a farm here in Warsaw, 50 years ago while raising Branch and her 10 siblings. When asked about the lawsuit she has filed against hog production giant, Murphy Brown, which buys from the hog grower across the street, she says, “You ever hear that saying, ‘What comes around goes around’?” Branch is one of over 500 residents in eastern North Carolina who are suing Murphy Brown, the pork production arm of Virginia-based meat conglomerate Smithfield Foods. They’re seeking damages over the cesspools, or lagoons as the industry calls them—uncovered earthen storage pools of waste. The complainants say the lagoons disrupt their lives and devalue their properties. “The poor people, they literally get shit on.” One couple alleges they were forced to close their family business, a restaurant, because the smell drove customers away. Another complainant says he and his wife are so embarrassed by the odor that they no longer have friends over. Others claim that when the farmers spray the waste from the lagoons onto crops, a fine mist of liquefied feces collects on their houses and cars, attracting swarms of flies. Some say their children get teased at school because their clothes smell like hog manure. The lawsuits mark the latest chapter in a decades-long battle. To outsiders, it may look like little more than a spat between neighbors. But at heart, it’s a story about poverty and racial inequality, and how those forces play out in a state where the hog industry has emerged as both essential for the economy and an oppressor of poorer communities of color. It begs questions about the quality of life the world’s richest nation will tolerate for its poorer citizens, questions that have been thrown into sharp relief by the recent entry into North Carolina of China’s—indeed the world’s—largest pork processor, WH Group. Drawn by the low cost of production there, WH Group finds it cheaper to raise pigs in North Carolina and export them to tables back home than to raise the animals in China. The irony is not lost on the residents of Duplin County. “The poor people, they literally get shit on,” says Kemp Burdette, who advocates for better water quality in North Carolina’s Cape Fear River with the nonprofit, the Cape Fear River Watch. Above swine country Flying from North Carolina’s coast toward Duplin County, the change in landscape is dramatic as you enter hog country. Old colonial-style houses, swimming pools, shopping centers, and golf courses give way to a flat patchwork of green and brown fields dotted with trailers, long metal barns, and the telltale sign of a hog farm—dug out basins filled with a murky liquid tinged a purplish-pink, the result of bacteria consuming the swine waste stored in them. North Carolina has thriving tech, pharmaceutical and banking sectors and a richly-endowed university system, but you wouldn’t know it here. Almost a quarter of the population lives below the poverty line, making Duplin County one of the poorest counties in North Carolina. It is also disproportionately black and Hispanic compared to the rest of the state. Since the late 1990s, Duplin has been the top hog producing county in the country, and a big reason why Americans can buy their pork for as little as $2.50 per pound. Home to about 530 hog operations with capacity for over 2 million pigs, it has one of the highest concentrations of large, tightly-controlled indoor hog operations, also known as CAFOs (concentrated animal feeding operations) in the world. Here in Duplin, hogs outnumber humans almost 32 to 1. Pork has always been important to North Carolina’s economy. It was among 16 commodities used as legal tender by colonists in the early 1700s, and for almost as long, farmers and their neighbors have been fighting over how the animals should be managed. Today, the industry accounts for close to $8 billion a year in revenue and 46,000 full-time jobs in production and processing, according to the North Carolina Pork Council, making the state the second largest pork producer in the US. Accompanying all those swine is a lot of waste—hogs produce two-to-five times as much waste as humans. North Carolina does not release exactly how much manure is produced a year, and Smithfield declined to disclose how much its pigs produce, but estimates range between 15.5 million tons (pdf, p. 5) for the state’s top five pork producing counties to 2.53 billion gallons for the whole state. The nearly 2.3 million hogs raised in Duplin County generated twice as much waste as the entire city of New York (p.11) in 2007, the nonprofit Food and Water Watch estimates. Hog wars Residents, the industry, and its critics have been at an uneasy stalemate over the lagoons for the past fifteen years. Big industrial farms first started popping up in the 1980s. By the late 1990s, public concern turned to outrage when a series of lagoons overflowed during storms, submerging entire towns in waste. After that, armed protestors blocked construction of a new farm in Craven County, northeast of Duplin, and two hog farms in a neighboring county were riddled with bullet holes. But it wasn’t until a new hog farm and lagoon was proposed near the wealthy North Carolina golfing village, Pinehurst (right before it was to host the 1999 US Open), that lawmakers finally passed a statewide moratorium on the opening of new hog sites. The ban remains in place today. Smithfield representatives say the company has gone beyond meeting state regulations on waste processing by setting up internal audits and reporting systems that provide local residents with a mechanism to file complaints. In 2000, Smithfield told the state it would spend $17 million researching waste management alternatives, with the aim of implementing new, “environmentally superior” technologies. But 15 years later, the lagoons remain. Legislators deemed that the alternatives—which cost as much as five times the current lagoon system—were too expensive to force Smithfield and local farms to adopt. Today, almost all of North Carolina’s 2,100-plus hog farms still store their waste in open lagoons, which can be as large as a football field. “Industry is unhappy because they would like the ability to expand and build new farms and the environmentalists are unhappy because we still have these lagoons operating out there,” says Kelly Zering, a professor at North Carolina State University, who led part of the economic analysis of the alternative technologies in the Smithfield-funded research initiative. The stalemate was broken in 2013 when the Chinese company Shuanghui, now known as WH Group, acquired Smithfield for $4.7 billion. The deal, the largest Chinese takeover of a US company ever, placed a national spotlight on pig farming, and provided plaintiffs with fresh impetus to revive their complaints about the lagoons. Smithfield says the acquisition has made it a target for lawyers hoping for “a quick payday.” The first lawsuit arrived just two months after the takeover was announced in May, the company’s legal counsel points out. “This was out of the blue,” says Mark Anderson, Smithfield’s counsel. There were few records of the residents complaining to neighbors, the state, or to the company before then, he says. “Whether we’re right or not, we read into that a purpose.” Parent WH Group also dismisses the nuisance claims. The company told Quartz that it is “aware of the allegations,” adding that “based on what we know now, we find them to be either wildly exaggerated, or in most cases, wholly unfounded and frivolous.” The complainants say they have been raising their concerns to officials and the company for years. Branch, for example, has been a thorn in Smithfield’s side for the better part of the last two decades, rallying others through local community groups and making media appearances. Less vocal residents say they have been complaining for years as well. Lakes of manure The noxious odors are apparent to anyone traveling through hog country—one of the plaintiffs likes to joke that you can smell the city of Beulaville, in Duplin County, long before you get there. But not a whole lot is known about the health and environmental effects of the lagoons. Historically, there has been little research into claims that they hurt the health of people living or working near them through water or air contamination. Studies have mostly focused on the efficiency of hog production rather than negative side effects that could create liabilities or expenses for the industry, according to Steve Wing, an epidemiologist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNCCH). But in recent years, environmentalists, academics and public health advocates have begun documenting their impact. Studies point to effects from impaired memory to higher infant mortality rates, wheezing, nausea, and higher blood pressure. The technology behind the lagoons is rudimentary at best. The hogs defecate in their indoor stalls, their waste falling through slatted floors into slurries where it is flushed or pumped into a nearby lagoon. Solid waste forms sludge at the bottom of the basin, creating a semi-permeable barrier that helps prevent leakage into the ground. Liquid from the top of the pond is used as manure, and applied to crops with high-pressure spray guns. Unlike human waste, which is processed in municipal wastewater plants, the only treatment the pig manure receives is through exposure to naturally occurring bacteria in the lake. Local environmentalists argue that in eastern North Carolina especially, a swampy wetland where the ground water tables are high, waste runs off of the spray fields into ditches that lead into creeks and major streams like the Cape Fear River. A study released in January by researchers at the University of North Carolina and Johns Hopkins University found elevated levels of hog-related fecal bacteria—which can cause hepatitis, typhoid, dysentery and other health problems—in waterways near hog operations. A new study released in June by the US Geological Survey found that 21 of 36 watersheds in eastern North Carolina with swine or poultry CAFOs showed higher levels of nutrients and major ions than those without. Other studies point to effects ranging from impaired memory function to higher infant mortality (paywall) rates; higher asthma rates in children to wheezing, nausea and higher blood pressure among the neighboring population. “These lagoons and spray fields cannot be allowed to continue in North Carolina, they are causing too many problems to our waters, our air, our people, our health. They have got to go,” says Rick Dove, a local activist with the Waterkeeper Alliance in New Bern, North Carolina and long-time campaigner against the lagoons. The industry argues that few studies show a direct link between hog CAFOs and harm to people’s health or the environment. Pollutants can also come from other sources like fertilizer, municipal human waste, or wildlife, they point out. They say that the lagoons, if maintained properly, can last forever and pose little threat to the environment or nearby residents. According to a 2008 Government Accountability Office survey, 53 of 68 government-sponsored or peer-reviewed studies failed to directly link air and water pollution from animal waste to environmental and health problems. Although the remaining 15 do show a link, they’re not sufficiently damning to force hog producers, or the state for that matter, to do more. North Carolina state officials agree with the hog producers that the lagoons are safe and that the regulatory system in place is more than enough to mitigate any potential impact of the farms. Swine farms must have permits, approved waste management plans, detailed logbooks of how many times they fertilize the crops as well as soil samples to ensure they’re not over-applying. Farmers also have to maintain “freeboard” of at least one foot between the liquid waste and the top of the lagoon to prevent overflow during storms. “North Carolina has a robust, comprehensive program to regulate animal operations and is the only state in the nation that requires annual inspections of every facility,” said Susan Masengale, a public information officer with the state’s Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (DENR), which regulates the lagoons. There’s little federal oversight of these operations. Only 40% of 20,000 large livestock operations in the US are regulated under the Clean Water Act, the federal law on water pollution, Jon Devine, a senior attorney for the National Resources Defense Council, told National Geographic last year. That’s because only CAFOs that are designed to discharge directly into streams or other water sources are required to apply for federal permits under the Clean Water Act. Environmental racism Elsie Herring, one of the complainants, says that living next to a hog farm made the last years of life for her mother and brother hard. Herring lives in the town of Wallace, in Duplin, where she and her siblings grew up on land that her grandfather, a freed slave, had bought in 1891. Her mother died in 2001; her brother, who had Down syndrome died in 2006. During their last few years, Herring avoided letting them sit outside when the farmer next door was spraying waste from his lagoon onto crops. The odor, she said, would drift over and give them breathing problems. Herring didn’t have the time or money to drive her mother elsewhere, so she could escape the smell. “My mother, all she could do was get out and walk around outside,” Herring says from inside her living room. The room, dotted with candles and air fresheners, also has an air conditioning unit, an expense says Herring, that she’s forced to incur because she can’t leave her windows open now. “Sitting on the porch, walking outside or going outside to visit my sister and nephew should have been something they were able to do as long as they were able to do it,” she says, gesturing across the gravel driveway in front of her house. “But because of the hog waste, the last years of their lives they were held prisoners in their own home.” There is little denying that whatever the impact of the hog lagoons, it is poorer rural communities of color that bear the effects the most. Almost all of the plaintiffs in the nuisance lawsuits are black Americans. A study released last year by UNCCH found that black North Carolinians were one and a half times as likely to live within three miles of an industrial hog operation as white residents. American Indians were twice as likely and Hispanic residents were 1.39 times as likely to live near these facilities in North Carolina. “This spatial pattern is generally recognized as environmental racism,” the study’s authors concluded. “There is a lot of distrust between Latinos, blacks, and the industry,” says Devon Hall, a community organizer of the group, Rural Empowerment Association for Community Help, also known as REACH. “For so long, our concerns have been downplayed, but when we hear the powers that be say, ‘It’s not that bad,’ it is always someone who doesn’t have the same skin complexion as myself,” Hall says. For some of the plaintiffs, the worst part is feeling ignored and helpless. Al Davis, 69 lives with his wife and two sons in Beulaville, about 54 meters (177 feet) from a field where waste from a hog farm of 4,740 swine is spread. Davis, retired after years of working as a technician at a textile mill, would like to pass on the land that he’s owned for the past 44 years to his sons but worries the value of it is too low now. He’d like to take up gardening but the odor makes it hard for him to breathe when he’s outside. Having a cookout, taking his youngest son to play outside, or just sitting out on his porch are also out of the question. “It’s a bad feeling,” Davis says. “I just feel powerless, frustrated.” The world’s largest pork consumer China’s arrival in North Carolina’s hog industry has aroused fear among local residents, but also provided critics of the lagoon system with fresh ammo. They argue that Smithfield, under Chinese ownership, will have to produce more pork to feed growing demand for the meat from China’s expanding middle class families, and that will mean more hogs and more waste. For now, it is far from certain that will happen. Lawmakers have approved a bill that would allow some previously closed hog farms to reopen and use lagoons, but for now the moratorium and a quota system on the number of hogs per farm remain in place. One way farms can get around the restrictions, according to Zering, the NCSU professor, is by raising heavier hogs, which produce more waste. There’s data to support that thesis: Today, the average market hog in North Carolina is 27% heavier than it was in 1980. But fatter pigs, on their own, without any changes to the moratorium or quota system won’t move the needle much. What is clear is that mistrust and a certain amount of xenophobia have complicated an already controversial issue. China’s role in the US hog industry is so polarizing that Smithfield’s lawyers have filed a motion to strike mention of “the Chinese government, Chinese corporations, and Chinese demand for and purchases of pork” from all proceedings in the nuisance suits. The lawyers argue that these references are “scandalous and clearly designed to inflame the jury and the public while taking advantage of xenophobic biases in today’s political landscape,” according to their court filing. It’s undeniable that WH Group and Smithfield benefit from the low-cost lagoons. Today, raising hogs somewhere like North Carolina is almost 50% cheaper than in China where hogs are still bred on thousands of small farms. Lagoons, which require little manpower to operate, along with cheaper feed in the US, and the use of larger and more efficient CAFOs have helped lower costs. The average hog production costs in China more than doubled between 2002 and 2009. But in the US those costs fell by over a quarter (p. 24) between 1998 and 2009 as industrial hog farming and the accompanying lagoon system got underway in places like North Carolina. Even Smithfield’s corporate owner in China uses what lagoon skeptics would call more advanced technology that North Carolina lawmakers deemed too expensive to force farms to use. WH Group’s seven pork farms in China—which produced just 311,000 sows last year, compared to Smithfield’s 14.7 million—use a dry manure removal process that separates the solids from the liquids and stores them in oxidized lagoons. Two of the farms use a digester system where the lagoons are covered and used to generate electricity. In fact, finding new technologies that cut down on odor and potential leaks into water sources has become a national priority for the country. A pollution census in 2010 found that agricultural pollution, and especially manure from livestock operations, was a larger source of water pollution than industry. Since then, China’s ministry of agriculture has been promoting the use of biogas digesters. All this bolsters arguments that poorer agricultural communities in eastern North Carolina are fast becoming China’s outsourced factory farms. ”Water and air pollution, emissions of noxious gases… All of those things are here. We’re getting all of those negative impacts and all of the profits are going to China, and a lot of that meat will go to China,” says Burdette, the water advocate for the Cape Fear River. Raising hogs somewhere like North Carolina is almost 50% cheaper than in China. Through its ownership of Smithfield, WH Group effectively owns one in four pigs raised in the US. It’s an ironic reversal of roles in global trade, given American consumers’ presumption that it is they who benefit from cheap products manufactured by low wage workers in China. “Historically, the rich countries have been able to get natural resources and cheap labor from poorer countries. Now what’s happening is you have a company…that is producing in a way that destroys the health and environment in a rich country,” says Wing, the epidemiologist from UNCCH. There are other alternatives If Smithfield spent or required its contract farms to spend an additional $52,000 per average farm—the cheapest alternative option that researchers came up with during the Smithfield-funded initiative in 2000—it could dispose of its farms’ hog manure in less odorous ways. In fact, its farms in other states are already using some of these technologies. In Utah, Smithfield uses “anaerobic digesters,” or covered lagoons in which methane is captured and used to generate biogas. (Hog farms in Germany, the European Union’s largest hog producer, use this method.) Smithfield says the project should eventually produce about 25,000 megawatt hours of electricity a year. In Missouri, some Smithfield farms have also installed lagoon covers to capture biogas, as well as barn scrapers that shovel the waste into storage units or a lagoon rather then flushing it out with water, which helps cut down on odor and emissions (pdf, p.21). Why doesn’t Smithfield go ahead and adopt some of these technologies in North Carolina? ”We’re rich and big and how come we just don’t do it? The answer is we’re also a for profit company that has an obligation to shareholders,” says Smithfield’s chief sustainability officer Dennis Treacy. He says the lagoons are “state of the art” and will not be going anywhere soon. “We constantly are looking for ways to change and have changed dramatically, but to do it willy-nilly, based on the whim of a scientist or a public opinion piece that shows up somewhere, we really have to take a hard look at that.” But even experts who contributed to the conclusion that these alternative technologies are too expensive say the lagoon system can’t last forever. As global meat consumption grows, and its production is increasingly concentrated in massive, industrial farms, the US and and other countries will have to deal with rapidly growing quantities of animal waste. Iowa and Minnesota, other major US hog producers, face water quality and air pollution issues similar to those in North Carolina. Health experts in China, where the hog industry is expanding in hopes of gaining pork self-sufficiency, worry that more porcine waste is increasing antibiotic resistance in humans (pdf). “When [the lagoon system] was incorporated in the 1970s and 1980s, it was a really good model, but I feel it is not the model that can take us into the future,” says Mike Williams, director of the Animal and Poultry Waste Management Center at NC State, who headed the Smithfield-funded research initiative. “It is not sustainable for many generations from now,” he says. Taking sides It’s unlikely the fighting over hog lagoons in North Carolina will be settled soon. The state is neither funding nor forcing companies to fund further investigations into alternative models. Despite the fact that there are more studies documenting the lagoons impacts as well as other options, overhauling the lagoon system isn’t high on the government’s list of priorities. “Most people are going on with their daily lives, not thinking about hog pollution,” Dove says. The state’s General Assembly has proposed rules that would bar new residents in a neighborhood from filing nuisance lawsuits. Another proposed amendment would require residents who lose their nuisance cases to pay for the legal expenses of the farms sued. The state is getting a little less transparent—as of last year, the state government will no longer disclose how many total complaints have been made against hog farms. Instead, North Carolina only reports those that resulted in notices of violation. (Between the start of 2012 and the end of March this year, there were only 15 notices.) Within the community, divisions have started to form. The prevalence of the hog industry in counties like Duplin means that almost everyone is connected to the swine business. Hog farmers say that a hit on Murphy Brown, which owns or contracts with as many as two thirds of farms in the state, would affect them too. “If [Murphy Brown] loses, what they lose has got to hurt me, and all the guys working out here,” says Ronnie Wezzel, 65, who works on a Murphy Brown farm in Warsaw, in Duplin County, near one of the complainants. “We here in Duplin County are fine and would appreciate if others who don’t like our way of life stay where they come from.” Marcus Childs, 20, another Duplin County native, knows which side of this argument he sits on. A hanger at a local poultry processing plant, he spends his days on an assembly line slinging birds on to metal hooks. One mid-morning day in late March, he is fishing for bream and catfish by Maxwell creek, a stream in Duplin County flanked by hog and poultry farms. Childs says he is not concerned about the possibility of manure contaminating the water—he catches and eats fish from these streams two or three times a week. The smell of the hog waste doesn’t bother him either. “It’s like money to us,” he says. Others prefer to think of the plaintiffs and critics of the industry as outsiders, attacking an economy and way of life they don’t understand. Amanda James is president of Rose Hill Magnolia Elementary—a primary school located just behind a rendering plant in Duplin County that turns unwanted animal parts into feed and other products. She says the plant does a good job of minimizing the odors it sends into the air. “Not to mention the thousands of jobs that are provided to so many families in the area because of our hog farms,” she says. “We here in Duplin County are fine and would appreciate if…others who don’t like our way of life stay where they come from and quit trying to disturb our way of life,” James adds. Why don’t they move? It might look like the cards are heavily stacked against the residents of hog country, but legal experts say that there is more public scrutiny of the industry now, as well as as more community activism than before. “Things are different. There’s more general awareness of the problem and a lot more scientific study of the human and environmental impacts,” says Michelle Nowlin, a supervising attorney with the Environmental Law Clinic at Duke University. “I think about how long I’ve been here, and I think about how pleasant it was…How come they don’t move?” Residents’ greatest hope of remedy may rest in federal law that has nothing to do with farming, health or the environment, but exists to serve vulnerable populations: The Civil Rights Act. A group of non-governmental organizations, the North Carolina Environmental Justice Network, REACH, the Waterkeeper Alliance, and Earth Justice have filed a civil rights complaint against the state agency DENR for the hog lagoons’ “unjustified disproportionate impact on the basis of race and national origin against African Americans, Latinos and Native Americans.” The EPA has said that it would investigate the accusations. The federal agency could pull its funding for DENR or force it to change its permitting system. If the nuisance lawsuits are successful, litigants could win monetary damages equal to the value of their homes and more. The plaintiffs are not demanding injunctive relief, which would require the farms to cease using the lagoons. The lawsuits should take another two years to reach a conclusion, Smithfield’s lawyers estimate. Some of the complainants may eventually move. But not all of them will. Branch, sitting at her kitchen counter in Warsaw, reminisces over her childhood and raising her daughter on the same land her parents farmed. “I think about how long I’ve been here, and I think about how pleasant it was,” she says. She gets angry at any suggestion that she leave to avoid the smell. “When I’m asked that question it stirs up something in me. It doesn’t make me feel happy at all,” she says. “How come they don’t move?”
A previously unknown “supercolony” of more than 1.5 million penguins in the Antarctic peninsula was discovered by a team of researchers led by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod, who spotted the penguins on satellite imagery. The findings, published in the journal Scientific Reports on Friday, reveals a small chain of remote islands known as the Danger Islands to be a habitat for Adélie penguins, a species that biologists previously believed to be declining, according to a statement from WHOI. “Not only do the Danger Islands hold the largest population of Adélie penguins on the Antarctic Peninsula, they also appear to have not suffered the population declines found along the western side of Antarctic Peninsula that are associated with recent climate change,” Michael Polito, researcher and assistant professor of oceanography at Louisiana State University, said in the statement. Researchers first noted feces stains in satellite imagery of the Danger Islands, which led them to believe there was “a mysteriously large number of penguins,” WHOI said. So, the team launched an expedition to the islands in December 2015 to see if they were right. They discovered thousands of birds resting in rocky soil and took population tallies by hand and with the use of a drone. “The drone lets you fly in a grid over the island, taking pictures once per second,” Hanumant Singh, an engineering professor at Northeastern University who developed the drone’s imaging system. “You can then stitch them together into a huge collage that shows the entire landmass in 2D and 3D.” Researchers believe the penguins were undiscovered for so long because of how remote the islands are, as well as being surrounded by thick sea ice and treacherous waters, WHOI said. In the future, researchers want to study how the penguin population is distributed on the peninsula and why, including looking at ice condition and food availability. They believe knowledge of the penguin colony could also support proposed marine protected areas.
Parks Canada will use machinery to thin forests in Jasper National Park devastated by pine beetles in an effort to reduce the risks of wildfires this summer. The work is scheduled to begin Monday. The equipment is being brought into the Pyramid Bench area west of Jasper townsite, to remove dead lodgepole pine trees and trees affected by mountain pine beetles, said Alan Fehr, field unit supervisor for Jasper National Park. "It's a means of reducing the danger of wildfire to visitors and the townsite," Fehr told Edmonton AM on Friday. The work will continue until April 15 as long as the ground remains frozen. The remainder of the project area will be completed between November 2018 and April 2019. Prescribed burns are the preferred method to help manage the risk of wildfire because of the ecological benefits, said Fehr. But prescribed burns need exact conditions, and in this case, the scale of the forest area affected by mountain pine beetle and the proximity to the townsite make mechanical thinning the safest and most effective action, he said. "To use prescribed burns in that context is a little bit too risky for us," said Fehr. "It's close to town, it's close to some campsites and there's a lot of fuel on the ground." Signs will be in place and information is available through the park information centre, said Parks Canada in a release.
WASHINGTON — Under a scorching sun, a big crowd of demonstrators jammed Lafayette Square and spilled over into Farragut Square to protest the Trump administration’s immigration policies for the “Families Belong Together” march and rally Saturday in downtown D.C. The rally began at 11 a.m. in Lafayette Park and featured several speakers including Lin-Manuel Miranda, the creator of musical “Hamilton,” and actress America Ferrera. The spillover crowd in Farragut Square watched a Jumbotron to follow the action from the stage in Lafayette Park. Following the rally, many of the protesters marched down Pennsylvania Avenue. Most of the demonstrators came prepared for the stifling, hot weather, wearing light-colored, loose-fitting clothing and hats to guard against the blazing midday sun. “We contemplated skipping this, because it’s such a hot day … But how can you … sit home and not make your voice heard? It’s too important. We would have just felt horrible not doing this,” said Melissa Maher, of Baltimore, Maryland. D.C. Fire Engine 16 tapped a fire hydrant at 16th and H Street Northwest, dispensing a spray of water over the intersection to provide demonstrators some relief from the heat. The National Park Service said organizers expected 50,000 people to attend Saturday’s rally, which is ten times what organizers initially expected when they filed for a permit. The rally was one of more than 600 marches planned across the country protesting the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy that separates children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border. On Thursday, Capitol police arrested nearly 600 people as they demonstrated inside a Senate office building. Like WTOP on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others.
The Nature Conservancy in Nashville has just received another incredible gift from Bridgestone Americas, Inc. In July 2018, the transfer of approximately 6,000 acres of land located in White County will be complete. This new wildlife management area will be named Bridgestone Nature Reserve at Chestnut Mountain. The property is located in White County. This will bring the total area of land donated by Bridgestone to The Nature Conservancy since 2000 to approximately 14,500 acres and is the largest land gift they have ever received. Worldwide, The Nature Conservancy has preserved more than 119 million acres of land and thousands of miles of rivers. They are supported through donations from more than one million members. The Nature Conservancy works around the world to conserve and protect land and water. Their mission is, “Conserving the lands and waters on which all life depends.” Their organization currently protects land and water in 72 countries. The Nature Conservancy is working to develop a low impact usage plan for the donated land which will allow such activities as fishing, canoeing, kayaking, hiking and hunting. They will work with Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation to ensure that the land is preserved. Chuck Sutherland, GIS Specialist, describes the impact of this donation: “This donation connects all the following parks and waste management areas: Dog Cove, Bridgestone/Firestone Wilderness Management Area, Virgin Falls, Lost Creek, Fall Creek Falls State Park, Bledsoe State Forest, and Latimer High Adventure Wilderness.” Sutherland stated, “This large contiguous greenery crosses four counties including Cumberland, Bledsoe, Van Buren and White.” This continuous stretch of wilderness will consist of approximately 45,200 acres once the donation is completed. Sutherland describes the property as having, “… spectacular waterfalls and cliff lines with already cut trails.” Mack Prichard, Tennessee State Naturalist Emeritus, is thrilled about the news of this preservation of the Bridgestone wilderness and donation to The Nature Conservancy. Prichard was responsible for facilitating the conservation of approximately 40 state parks in the last 50-plus years in Tennessee and this additional acreage will tie several of those parks together.
More than 100 Tolaga Bay locals have turned out to a meeting to discuss recent flooding and the damage caused by the leftovers from forestry operations. Slash - or offcuts from forestry harvesting - washed down from forestry plots and blocked rivers and damaged farms in two bouts of heavy rain in the region over the past few weeks. A panel of forestry company and Gisborne District Council personnel were being asked questions by the crowd. The council said it was investigating whose fault the slash-damage was and how it could be prevented in the future. The investigation will take three months. Residents want to know why the clean up was taking so long, what will happen to all the debris and how the slash will be managed. Forestry companies said they would come up with a solution but it would not happen overnight. Last week it was revealed the council was warned in a report more than seven months ago that forestry debris was likely to cause huge damage in another big storm.
WARSAW, Poland — The European Union's top court ruled on Tuesday that Poland violated environmental laws with its massive felling of trees in one of Europe's last pristine forests. The ruling by the European Court of Justice said that, in increasing logging in the Bialowieza Forest in 2016-17, Poland failed to fulfil its obligations under EU directives to protect natural sites of special importance. Poland's environment minister at the time, Jan Szyszko, argued that felling the trees was necessary to fight the spread of bark beetle infestation. Heavy machines were used in the process, causing additional damage to the forest. Poland's conservative government is involved in a number of disputes with the EU, including one over changes to the judicial system — an argument that has led Brussels to trigger a process that could lead to punitive measures against Warsaw. In the forest dispute, the court said bark beetle infestation did not justify the scale of the logging, while Poland failed to ensure the safety of birds and other species in the forest. No fines were imposed because the machines have been removed and the excessive logging has stopped. Environmentalists say the large-scale felling of trees in Bialowieza, which straddles Poland's eastern border with Belarus and is a UNESCO World Heritage site, destroyed rare animal habitats and plants in violation of EU regulations. They held protests at the site and brought the case before the EU court. The chief executive of the ClientEarth environmental organization, James Thornton, said the ruling was a "huge victory for all defenders of Bialowieza Forest, hundreds of people who were heavily engaged in saving this unique, ancient woodland from unthinkable destruction." Philippe Lamberts, co-president of the Greens group in the European Parliament, said Poland's government has "repeatedly undermined rule of law." "I hope this ruling will at last convince the Polish government that they need to change course," he said. In January, Poland replaced its environment minister and stopped the logging. The new minister, Henryk Kowalczyk, has said Warsaw will respect the EU court's ruling and will seek better ways of protecting the forest. The forest covers tens of thousands of hectares (hundreds of thousands of acres) in Poland and Belarus, and is home to hundreds of animal and plant species, including bison, lynx, moss and lichen. Its younger parts have been traditionally used to produce timber, a source of income for local residents. The European court ordered Poland to pay court costs. It didn't specify the amount.
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) — A flurry of tornadoes that formed unexpectedly swept through central Iowa Thursday, injuring at least 17 people, flattening buildings in three cities and forcing the evacuation of a hospital. The tornadoes hit Marshalltown, Pella and Bondurant as surprised residents ran for cover. The storms injured 10 people in Marshalltown and seven at a factory near Pella, but no deaths were reported. Marshalltown , a city of 27,000 people about 50 miles (80 kilometers) northeast of Des Moines, appeared to have been hit the hardest. Brick walls collapsed in the streets, roofs were blown off buildings and the cupola of the historic courthouse tumbled 175 feet (53 meters) to the ground. The only hospital in Marshalltown was damaged, spokeswoman Amy Varcoe said. All 40 of the patients at UnityPoint Health were being transferred to the health system's larger hospital in Waterloo as well as one in Grundy Center, she said. The emergency room in the smaller Marshalltown hospital remained open to treat patients injured in the storm, Varcoe said. Ten people hurt in the storm had been treated, she said. She did not know how serious those patients' injuries were. Marshalltown resident Stephanie Moz said she, her husband and 2-month-old baby were in the downtown clothing store she owns when tornado sirens went off. The family sought shelter in the building's basement and heard "cracking and booms and explosions" as the tornado passed. The storm broke out a window, ruining clothing and hats on display there, and destroyed her husband's vehicle. But she said she's relieved. "We went through a tornado and survived," Moz said. "I'm happy." Weather forecasters said the tornadoes formed suddenly and took them by surprise. Alex Krull, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Des Moines, said forecasting models produced Thursday morning showed only a slight chance of strong thunderstorms later in the day. "This morning, it didn't look like tornadic supercells were possible," Krull said. "If anything, we were expecting we could get some large hail, if strong storms developed." Additional funnels were reported as the storm moved east of Des Moines past Altoona, Prairie City and Colfax. National Weather Service meteorologist Rod Donavon said two primary storms spawned the series of damaging tornadoes. One developed in the Marshalltown area, causing damage there, while the other started east of Des Moines and traveled through Bondurant and into Pella. The exact number of tornadoes and their strength will be determined later. Iowa State Rep. Mark Smith, who lives in Marshalltown, told Des Moines station KCCI-TV that the area likely will be declared a disaster area. Smith said much of downtown was damaged. He said his house and neighborhood were spared, but surrounding homes were hit. "There are houses with windows out, houses without roofs," he said. "It's just an absolute mess." Another tornado hit agricultural machinery maker Vermeer Manufacturing in the town of Pella, about 40 miles (64 kilometers) southeast of Des Moines. People were still working at the plant at the time. The storm scattered huge sheets of metal through a parking lot and left one building with a huge hole in it. Seven people injured at the plant were taken to Pella Regional Health Center, hospital spokeswoman Billie Rhamy said. They all were released after being treated for their minor injuries, Rhamy said. Gov. Kim Reynolds told WHO-TV in Des Moines that two of Vermeer's buildings in Pella were demolished in the storm. She said Vermeer was hosting 500 customers for an appreciation day when the weather hit. She credited the company's security team with moving them all to safety. Reynolds added that in Marshalltown, the state is providing a communications trailer and workers to help maintain emergency communications there. She said Marshalltown's building housing its local communications system was damaged. Associated Press writer Margery Beck in Omaha, Nebraska, contributed to this report.
More than a month after HT reported that 100 tourist buses parked on mangroves along New Link Road, Dahisar, violated wetland rules and Bombay high court order, the district administration confirmed that the parking lot is illegal and violated environmental norms. The sub-divisional officer, who headed the investigation said he will be telling the Borivli court about the violation. “We found that 83 buses were parked in the area, a garage is functioning illegally, and after consultation with the state mangrove cell, we saw that it is a violation under Environment Protection Act, 1986, action needs to be taken against the landowner of this plot – Avinash Patil, who is running the bus parking service,” said Babasaheb Pardhe, sub-divisional officer (SDO), Mumbai suburban. “Based on all the documents submitted by us, we will request the court to instruct the police to file a first-information-report (FIR) against Patil. Based on the order, we will remove the buses from the site and shut down the garage.” Noting the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bombay Environment Action Group — a city-based NGO — in 2005, the Bombay HC banned the destruction of state-wide mangroves and construction within 50-m of them. After Vanashakti filed another PIL, the HC banned all reclamation and construction on wetlands in 2014. This is not the first time that mangrove areas have been turned into parking lots. On April 10, HT had reported that in March 2016, 1,000 mangrove trees had been hacked to make way for a parking area for tourist buses along the New Link Road, between Dahisar and Borivli, opposite IC Colony and Bhavdevi Garage. In a follow up HT report from October 2016, the district collector’s office directed an investigation and the buses were removed. However, now the buses were spotted again and environmentalist Harish Pandey filed a complaint in the matter. Mangrove cell officials who surveyed the site said action needed to be taken sooner. “During the previous violation, we had identified that the distance between the mangroves and the parking area was less than 50m. However, the district administration insisted on another survey. Since it is a violation, doing all this paperwork was a sheer waste of time, and action could have been taken much earlier,” said Prashant Deshmukh, range forest officer (west), Mumbai Mangrove Conservation Unit (MMCU). A senior police officer from the MHB police station in Borivli said he was aware about the issue and closely tracking it. “As per Bombay High Court orders, we cannot take suo motu action in such cases. However, we are aware about the violation, and the minute the court tells us to act against the alleged accused, we will take up the corrective measures,” he said. Meanwhile, the complainant said it was ridiculous that the authorities needed a month to discover this was a violation. “Unnecessary paperwork between departments has delayed much needed action against these violators by over a month. This is happening at the cost of the city’s environment. Even if the buses are removed, it is too late for restoration to be carried out at the site, and flooding is inevitable this monsoon,” said Harish Pandey, secretary, New Link Road Residents Forum. First Published: May 22, 2018 11:12 IST
The nearly 3-year-old Yemen war has killed more than 10,000 people, displaced 2 million and helped spawn a devastating cholera epidemic in the Arab world's poorest country. Amid its humanitarian crises, Yemen's culture and historical sites have also been affected. The Awwam Temple links a region now on the front lines of the Saudi-led war against Houthi rebels to Arabia's pre-Islamic past. Experts fear the temple, as well as other historic and cultural wonders across Yemen, beyond those acknowledged by international authorities, remains at risk as the country's stalemated war rages on. "All the villages are historic in a way," said Anna Paolini, the director of UNESCO's regional office in Qatar that oversees Yemen and Gulf Arab nations. "They're still heritage of the country. It's sad to see what's happening." Saudi-led air attacks have destroyed historic mud homes in Saada, the birthplace of the Houthi rebels. Air attacks have also hit the over 2,500-year-old Old City in Yemen's rebel-held capital of Sanaa, a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its intricately decorated, burnt-brick towers. Shelling and air attacks have struck museums and other sites in the country. In 2015, air attacks damaged part of the Great Marib Dam, near the Awwam Temple and built by the same civilization, according to UNESCO. Just the shockwaves of an explosion in the distance can be enough to damage delicate structures. UNESCO has shared coordinates of some 50 historical sites with militaries involved in the fighting, to try to protect the sites, Paolini said, though many remain unguarded now in the chaos of the war. "Although we've seen less collateral damage and targeting of heritage, it still happens," she said. Foreign historians and archaeologists also fled the country over the fighting, halting work at sites like the Awwam Temple, also known as the Mahram Bilqis. Scholars believe the temple, with parts dating to the 7th century BC, served as a shrine to the god Almaqah. The nearby city of Marib was the capital of the Saba dynasty, which ruled the area for centuries before the birth of Christ. The kingdom built the Great Marib Dam and controlled spice and incense trade routes. The legendary Queen of Sheba, said in the Bible and the Quran to have visited King Solomon in the 10th century BC, has been linked to Saba, though Ethiopians claim her as their own. "She gave the king ... gold, large quantities of spices and precious stones. Never again were so many spices brought in as those the Queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon," the enigmatic Bible story goes. "King Solomon gave the Queen of Sheba all she desired and asked for ... Then she left and returned with her retinue to her own country." The Quran says Queen of Sheba was invited by King Solomon to abandon the worship of the sun and accept monotheism, to which she agreed. The Sabaean dynasty later succumbed to challenges from other kingdoms, and the Great Dam gave away in the 6th century AD, which the Quran attributes to the Sabaean abandoning the worship of one God. Soon after, Islam quickly spread across the Arabian Peninsula and beyond. Marib, which has grown into a city where many displaced by Yemen's war now live, and gunfire echoes through the day and night, has never been a particularly easy place in modern history. Famed American archaeologist and oilman Wendell Phillips began excavation of the Awwam Temple in 1951, but had to abandon all his equipment and flee raiding Bedouin tribesmen with his team. Associated Press correspondent Wilton Wynn and his photographer wife Leila visited the temple in 1957 on a royal tour of the then-Kingdom of Yemen, apparently becoming the first Americans since Phillips to see the ruins. Wynn described Marib at the time as so remote "our plane was lost for more than a half hour trying to find it." After the dam burst, "the city of Sheba was drowned and the kingdom never recovered," Wynn wrote in his AP dispatch. "Its population drifted away, leading to tribes moving to Syria, Mesopotamia and Palestine." Today, a simple fence surrounds the temple, just off a heavily guarded road leading to a Saudi coalition airbase and an oil refinery. A watchman lives in a small makeshift shack against the fence with his children. Foreign journalists and officials on a recent tour of Yemen organized by Saudi Arabia slipped through a large hole in the fence to marvel at the ancient South Arabian script inscriptions on stones inside. Some still bore what appeared to be red paint. Eight limestone pillars towered over the site, though weathered, chipped and marred by the occasional bit of graffiti. A Yemeni militiaman with a Kalashnikov assault rifle over his shoulder quickly shimmied up between two pillars, looking down with a smile at was once one of ancient Yemen's holiest sites.
Syrians said the US airstrikes hit a western Aleppo mosque on March 16, killing at least 40 worshipers and injuring dozens more. The US said the bombings targeted a meeting hall hosting al Qaeda terrorists. But Human Rights Watch said an investigation found no evidence to support the US claim that members of al Qaeda or any other armed group were meeting in the mosque. Interviews with locals and documentary evidence of the building in question suggest it was a well-known mosque that hosted lectures every Thursday between sunset and evening prayers, the group said. Any attempt to gather information about the building would have revealed that it was a popular gathering spot for residents at the time of the intended attack, Human Rights Watch said in a new report released Tuesday. "The US seems to have gotten several things fundamentally wrong in this attack, and dozens of civilians paid the price," Ole Solvang, deputy emergencies director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement. "The US authorities need to figure out what went wrong, start doing their homework before they launch attacks, and make sure it doesn't happen again." The US military said in March that an airstrike killed "several terrorists" at a meeting location of senior al Qaeda terrorists in Idlib. A US military official confirmed to CNN that American warplanes conducted airstrikes in the area. But the official said the strikes hit a building 40 to 50 feet from the mosque, and said satellite imagery showed the mosque still standing. But the Human Rights Watch report said the US military misidentified the location of the attack, and that it was southwest of al-Jinah, not in Idlib. The attack was documented by UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and the Syria Civil Defense, better known as the White Helmets. Human Rights Watch interviewed a member of the White Helmets who was on the ground for the report, as well as four people who were in the building during the strikes. Using research from open source investigative group Bellingcat, which analyzed video footage and photographs from the attack, and Forensic Architecture, which created models of the mosque and a reconstruction of the attack, Human Rights Watch said it was able to corroborate claims that the building was a mosque. The locations of two large craters suggest the first bomb hit the mosque during prayers, sending survivors fleeing before a second blast hit people outside. Others who rushed to the scene to help also were killed, a witness told Human Rights Watch. Photos of the building before the attack show it had shelves for shoes and rugs for prayers, suggesting it was a mosque, the report said. Furthermore, a photo taken of the building after the attack shows a sign amid the rubble that reads "Saydina Omar ibn Al-Khattab Mosque." The report calls on US authorities to make public findings of an investigation into the strikes, provide "adequate redress" to civilian victims and their families, and hold those responsible for the attack accountable. The United States has targeted al Qaeda fighters in Syria in past strikes. The Pentagon said 10 al Qaeda operatives were killed near Idlib in February. A US senior defense official told CNN an unmanned drone carried out that strike. US airstrikes have hit civilian facilities before. In 2015, a US airstrike hit a hospital run by Doctors Without Borders in Kunduz, Afghanistan, killing 42 people. CNN's Barbara Starr contributed to this report.
DENVER (AP) — The Trump administration on Wednesday eased rules for handling toxic coal ash from more than 400 U.S. coal-fired power plants after utilities pushed back against regulations adopted under former President Barack Obama. Environmental Protection Agency acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the changes would save utilities roughly $30 million annually. The move represents the latest action by Trump's EPA to boost the struggling coal industry by rolling back environmental and public health protections enacted under his predecessor. It pushes back the deadline to close problematic ash dumps and gives state regulators flexibility in how they deal with the massive waste piles that result from burning coal for electricity. Trump to Scrap Obama-Era Affirmative Action Guidelines On Tuesday, the Trump administration scrapped Obama-era guidance on race-based admissions policies. The Justice Department declared it was eliminating 24 federal documents that it deemed "unnecessary, outdated, inconsistent with existing law, or otherwise improper." Seven of those documents issued jointly with the Education Department's Office for Civil Rights under the Obama administration. They called on school superintendents and colleges to consider race when trying to diversify campuses. Universities, however, were already vowing to stick with their admissions policies despite the Trump administration reversal. The Trump administration is sending precisely the wrong message to institutions that are committed to following four decades of Supreme Court precedent. Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, signed the order a week after taking the helm of the agency following the resignation of former administrator Scott Pruitt amid ethics investigations. Environmentalists argue the administration is endangering the health of people living near power plants and ash storage sites, while industry representatives welcomed the announcement. U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons annually of ash and other waste, much of which ends up in unlined disposal ponds prone to leak. Some have been in use for decades. Data released by utilities in March under an EPA mandate showed widespread evidence of groundwater contamination at coal plants. Heightened levels of pollutants — including arsenic and radium in some cases — were documented at plants in numerous states, from Virginia to Alaska. EPA documents show most savings for utilities from the new rules will come from extending by 18 months the deadline to close ash dumps that don't meet water protection standards. The new deadline is Oct. 31, 2020. The utility industry said the changes give "regulatory certainty" for ash dump operators. That's in part because it aligns the closure requirements with upcoming guidelines limiting the levels of toxic metals in wastewater discharged from power plants. The changes also give state regulators the power to suspend monitoring requirements for dumps that don't meet water quality standards. "It's not like EPA has granted us free pass here. It just gives us additional time to operate those facilities and better synch them up" with the upcoming wastewater guidelines, said James Roewer, executive director of the Utility Solid Waste Advisory Group, an industry organization that had pushed for the changes. The original, Obama-era rule, adopted in 2015, came in response to a massive 2008 coal ash spill in Kingston, Tennessee. A containment dike burst at a Tennessee Valley Authority power plant and released 5.4 million cubic yards of ash. The accident dumped waste into two nearby rivers, destroyed homes and brought national attention to the issue. Attorney Larissa Liebmann with the Waterkeeper Alliance said the costs saved by utilities won't simply go away. Instead, she said, they'll be borne by communities that are forced to deal with contaminated water. "We think it's fundamentally unfair, Liebmann said. "The rules that were created in 2015 were already very much to the bare minimum."
Lake saviours are investing their time, effort, money in saving the state’s water bodies instead of waiting for the govt to do it. Deepthi Sanjiv meets some of them A silent water revolution is taking place in various parts of Karnataka. While Maharashtra has seen Paani Foundation doing wonders through a people’s movement to fight drought, in Karnataka, several water movements are taking shape silently in the recent years. While in a few parts of the state like Chamarajanagar, desilting of tanks was supported by the Zilla Panchayat through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the Vijayapura City Corporation took steps to revive its ancient water sources especially the karez system of Vijayapura. In other parts of the state too, lakes, wells and tanks are being revived without any support from the government. About two years ago, when Sirsi, a town in Uttar Kannada district, suffered a huge water crisis and drinking water was being supplied through tankers, the water surprise caught people off-guard. This is because just 30 years ago, the town was surrounded by forests had open wells and 12-13 lakes. Over the years, as the population increased, people began to depend on water from faraway lakes and rivers, gradually neglecting the lakes of the town that turned into dumping yards. K Raju Mogaveera, Assistant Commissioner in Chikkodi, was posted in Sirsi at the time. He launched the people’s movement to save water resources by involving a cross-section of the society. “Sirsi gets about 2,500 mm rain every year, but during summer, the town depends on water tankers for drinking water. We held a discussion with the public, journalists, government officials, industrialists, heads of institutes and decided to form a task force. On March 27, 2017, a meeting was convened to spread awareness on water conservation. At this meeting, it was decided to undertake desilting of tanks and lakes without government support. Thus, the Sirsi Jeevajala Karyapade was born,” he said. Lakes play an important role in ground water recharge. Lakes in Sirsi are relatively small; most of which are about an acre and two. As per government records, there are about 565 lakes/tanks in the town, many of which are filled with silt, because of which the ground water has not being recharged. The town is known for environment movements and people decided to revive lakes through public funds. First, the desilting of Anehonda Lake was taken up with the support from Rotary Club and Lions Club of Sirsi, Engineering Association of Sirsi, Swaadi Trust, Shanker Devekar and Kiran Chitragar. In a few minutes, the team managed to collect about `4 lakh. “People are coming forward and asking which the next lake to be revived is and that’s encouraging. People are realising the importance of lakes. The model can be replicated across the state,” he said. Work was taken up at Aanehonda, Rayara Kere, Haladota Kere, Bashetty Kere, Shankara Honda -- and they were revived. “The movement is a continuing thought. I have moved to Chikkodi. Desilting lakes such as Shankara Honda was a big challenge. It had literally turned into a dumping yard, but now is a tourist attraction. As part of World Environment Day, a short video was released on social media to spread awareness and draw the attention of corporates towards preserving lakes,” he said. Srinivas Hebbar, president Sirsi Jeevajala Karyapade and a businessman, said, “We have brought in a change in Sirsi on water conservation. I bought an earth-mover for Shankara Honda rejuvenation and today, it has become a tourist area with two paddle boats as well as a gym that is sponsored by the Rotary Club. There are bathing points. Work was completed in six months. We have spent about `95 lakh to rejuvenate about six lakes. The cost would have gone up to `4 crore, if the government had taken up the project, “ he said. A group of like-minded people through Pyaas Foundation in Belagavi have taken upon themselves to rejuvenate two lakes this summer with the support of Zilla Panchayat CEO R Ramachandran. Kiran Nippanikar, director, Pyaas Foundation, said, the Bhavihal lake project (in pic) is located in the midst of four villages and the entire area is arid and depends heavily on rain water for every activity. The villages include Nagnur, Sampgav, Bhavihal and Yarguppa. The lake is spread across four-and -a-half acres and is a huge asset to the villages. The primary purpose of the water will be for drinking and to some extent supplementing the demands for agriculture. The work has been executed at the cost of `18 lakh. They have also revived Amte lake in Khanapur. Amte village is near Jamboti forest area and is bestowed with adequate rainfall. However, like many other villages, it too has no strategy to conserve the rain water. Kiran said that the village has a population of around 2,600 and also healthy livestock.
Vanuatu plans to permanently evacuate entire volcanic island as Australia pledges aid Updated May 04, 2018 20:39:28 The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is preparing to permanently evacuate the entire population of one of its islands as thick ash spewing from a volcano kills crops, dirties water supplies and fouls the air. The 10,000 or so people who remain on Ambae island have mixed feelings about the plans. Some who are badly affected by the ash are eager to leave while others are resisting losing their land and culture. The island was temporarily evacuated last September when the eruption cycle began. This time, authorities are planning a permanent move. Government spokesman Hilaire Bule said on Thursday that he expects the Council of Ministers to approve a relocation plan by next week. Mr Bule said the islanders would be offered residence on two neighbouring islands. "It's not an easy decision," Mr Bule said. He said there were many details to work through, including providing schools and facilities to the displaced residents and negotiating land and new homes for them. Many people have close family and spiritual ties to the islands where they will be relocated, Maewo and Pentecost, Mr Bule said. Traditional religion even has it that the islands are part of a family — Pentecost being the mother, Maewo the father and Ambae the son. Most people on Ambae live a subsistence lifestyle by farming and fishing. Already hundreds of people have moved to temporary shelters on parts of the island that are not so affected by the ash. External Link: Latest Volcano Bulletin on #Ambae from @vmgdVU is now online; https://goo.gl/3GHGFD The VAL remains at Level 3, the eruption is continuing. The cone is still getting larger, however the latest eruptions have created a larger crater in the cone, destroying some of the cone. Ambae is about 400 square kilometres and is one of about 65 inhabited islands in Vanuatu, which is home to 280,000 people. Vanuatu sits on the Pacific's "Ring of Fire," the arc of seismic faults around the Pacific Ocean where earthquakes and volcanoes are common. Brad Scott, a New Zealand volcanologist with GNS Science who has been seconded to help Vanuatu authorities, said more than one quarter of Ambae has been severely impacted, with many traditional thatch roofs collapsing under the weight of the thick ash. He said traditional gardens have been buried and killed in some places, water supplies have been discoloured and the water tastes strange. He said there is lots of fine-grained ash, which can affect people's breathing and respiratory functioning. Other countries including France, New Zealand and Australia provided aid and financial help for the earlier evacuation. Australia on Thursday announced it was providing $AU300,000 to help with the island's permanent evacuation, with a focus on the needs of women, children and people with disabilities. Despite the problems, Mr Scott said, many people want to stay put. "There has been significant pushback in the community," Mr Scott said. Photo: Vanuatu sits on the Pacific's "Ring of Fire," the arc of seismic faults around the Pacific Ocean where earthquakes and volcanoes are common. (AP: Brad Scott/GeoHazards Divison) Mr Scott said the Manaro volcano on Ambae island had a large eruption about 400 years ago and has had several smaller eruptions over the past 100 years. There have been three phases in the current eruption, with the most recent phase, which started in March, producing the most ash. He said the volcano has actually quietened down over the past two weeks, although there is no way of predicting if and when the next explosive phase would begin. Asked if there was a chance that the residents might be able to one day move back to the island, Mr Bule, the government spokesman, said that was not a question for him. "We don't know," he said. "You'll have to ask the volcano." AP Topics: volcanic-eruption, foreign-aid, vanuatu First posted May 03, 2018 20:04:11
This celestial alignment results in the equinox—a day with light and dark of (nearly) equal length, with the sun rising precisely in the east and setting precisely in the west. This year, the vernal, or spring, equinox will occur on Tuesday, March 20. For most people, the equinox simply heralds a changing of the seasons. In March, the vernal equinox signals the beginning of spring in the Northern Hemisphere and autumn in the south, and the reverse happens during the September equinox. For millennia, observing the sun’s shifting path was both essential for survival and hard to ignore. Our star’s celestial wanderings foretold the onset of the growth and harvest seasons and warned of impending winter, so it’s not unusual to find a variety of solar calendars among the artifacts of vanished civilizations. Other cultures are keeping their traditions alive, and still performing ceremonies timed to the equinox. Many people have heard of the Maya calendar, but others are lesser known. In the Peruvian desert north of Lima, at a site called Chankillo, an enormous astronomical observatory sits atop a ridge. Dating back to at least 500 B.C., the installation is a complex array of 13 towers, fashioned in a north-south line resembling a spine. As the sun moves through its yearly paces, it rises and sets between the towers at predictable times, appearing to the left of the first tower at the summer solstice, in the center at equinox, and to the right of the last tower at winter solstice. “The extreme end towers are very clearly marking the solstices, though the argument for the equinox is more indirect,” notes archaeologist Iván Ghezzi of the Catholic University of Peru, who described the site’s solar connection in 2007. The identity of the observatory’s builders is still unknown, but like many ancient cultures in the Americas, they appeared to worship the sun. “Chankillo is much more than merely an astronomical observatory,” Ghezzi says. “It’s a site that was a large ceremonial center.” Chankillo, though still fundamentally enigmatic, is one of many examples of structures built to align with the equinox, such as a Stonehenge-like circle of wooden poles, or Woodhenge, at a prehistoric site called Cahokia in Southern Illinois, and the earthen lodges oriented toward astronomical features built by the Skidi Pawnee. But sometimes, simply marking astronomical alignments isn’t enough; another ancient method of tracing the sun’s meanderings through the sky involves using light and shadow to paint particular images. Here, the sunlight itself does the work, inscribing illuminated shapes or casting shadows. One example of this is at Chichén Itzá, where the Maya crafted a sculpture that transforms itself into a blazing serpent at equinox, representing their deity Kukulcan. Another image in light was discovered in 1977, when rock artist Anna Sofaer was exploring the petroglyphs of the American southwest. There, at the top of New Mexico’s Fajada Butte, Sofaer found what’s known as the Sun Dagger, a calendrical marking created from two spirals etched into the rock. During summer solstice and equinox, the spirals are sliced by a dagger of light as the sun shines through slabs of rock; at winter solstice, two daggers appear on either side of the spiral—or did. The rock slabs have shifted and the images no longer appear. “In many of areas of the ancient New World, scarlet macaws were symbolically associated with the sun and with fire, probably because of their red and yellow feathers,” says anthropologist Andrew Somerville, currently at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, who has worked extensively at a site called Paquime in northern Mexico. “By sacrificing a symbol of the sun on this solar holiday, one was perhaps ritually ending the dry season and hastening the arrival of the spring and summer rains.” Some Native American equinox traditions are still alive. For the Lakota of the U.S. Midwest, the vernal equinox not only kicked off a seasonal migration in the Black Hills of South Dakota, but also a series of ceremonies meant to welcome life on Earth and send the souls of the deceased to briefly rest in the core of the Milky Way. The inner bark of that red willow is the main ingredient used to make tobacco for the equinoctial Sacred Pipe ceremony, which is meant to rekindle the sacred fire of life on Earth. The ceremony is the first in a series of four that culminates with the Sun Dance on the summer solstice. For a long time, scholars thought only settled, agricultural societies marked the movements of the heavens. Yet the Lakota, who followed great herds of buffalo across the U.S. Midwest, also timed their movements to the motions of the sun and stars. The ancient traditions that accompanied their migrations are still alive, and in some cases thriving, on the Rosebud reservation today.
According to the VRCS Central Committee, Lai Chau will receive VND150 million and Ha Giang VND100 million to distribute to families of victims who were dead or injured during the flood. The society will sent working groups to Lai Chau, bringing along relief for local residents. Vice President of the VRCS Tran Thi Hong An said after traffic is resumed in the two provinces, the society will organize teams to transport necessities and clean water to flood-hit areas. Also on June 25, the Hanoi Red Cross Society handed over VND50 million to the VRCS to help flood victims. Heavy rains over the past few days caused massive floods and landslides in the northern mountainous region, with Lai Chau and Ha Giang being the hardest hit. As of 6 am on June 25, the death toll in flood and landslides rose to seven, with five in Lai Chau and two in Ha Giang, according to the Central Steering Committee for Natural Disaster Prevention and Control. At the same time, eight people in Lai Chau went missing and five were injured. Floods and landslides also destroyed and damaged hundreds of houses, hundreds of hectares of rice and crop. National roads 4D and 279 connecting Lao Cai and Lai Chau were blocked by masses of soil and stones from serious landslides, causing traffic congestion. Some provincial roads of Lai Chau were also damaged. Total losses are estimated to reach over VND76.6 billion, with Lai Chau being the hardest hit with damages amounting to about VND60 billion.
Painting, traditional opera prove key draws for rural community in Fujian province A group of artists has been breaking established norms by deciding to uproot and relocate to a traditional Chinese village, leaving behind their jobs, homes and city lives in the process. Longtan village, nestled deep in the mountains of Pingnan county, Fujian province, began seeing painters, designers and freelancers flock there last year. "We couldn't believe it at first," said longtime resident Chen Ziban. "Young people used to leave here for jobs in the cities, but now it's the other way around." Just two years ago, the village had only about 200 residents. Its school was shut down due to a lack of students and some homes were abandoned. Today, it has a population of more than 1,000. Last year, authorities launched a project to help rejuvenate traditional villages through cultural and creative industries. "The best way to revive the village is to bring talent in," said Lin Zhenglu, who is in charge of the project to restore Longtan's cultural traditions. Born in Fujian, Lin spent many years teaching painting in Shanghai. "Many city folk envy those living in the countryside, especially places with a rich history and culture," Lin said. "But they also worry about rural living conditions." Lin's plan includes renovating traditional homes and teaching villagers to paint. He said the former helps draw people in, while the latter encourages those with an appreciation for art to stay. The old homes, once nearly forgotten, now have improved access to public utilities and many have been structurally reinforced and aesthetically refurbished. One home has been converted into a Siping Opera museum. The operatic style is a traditional art form once considered lost but now seeing a revival in Longtan. Other homes are rented out for fixed-terms of 15 years, with a three-story unit of 100 square meters costing around 200,000 yuan ($31,700). So far, more than 50 homes have been rented, mostly by Lin's artist friends and former students. "The village stands out with lush mountains, unique architecture and gifted villagers who can paint. It's a great location for artists," he said. Many artists have come for an alternative lifestyle where they can be close to nature, appreciate local culture and operate small businesses. Some have converted their homes into personal studios, bookstores, bistros, bars and cafes. "The internet, e-commerce and a rapid logistics system have made life away from cities much easier," said Zeng Wei, 32, a bookstore owner and a relatively new arrival to Longtan. Attracted by the beautiful scenery and Siping Opera, Zeng decided to move to the village. He converted the first floor of his home into a bookstore, and plans to make cultural props and accessories that can be used in operatic performances. He also helps villagers sell farm produce online. Last year, villagers sold around 500 kilograms of persimmon, raking in more than 20,000 yuan, with his help. As more people arrived in Longtan, Lin reopened the elementary school and invited his friends and qualified new inhabitants to teach. Zeng's wife now teaches Chinese in the school, and Gao Rongrong, a former freelance translator in Shanghai and a student of Lin, teaches English. "I didn't hesitate to come here when Lin called," said Gao, who is also a cartoonist. "It's so beautiful and I like the old homes. It's like walking in history." Gao created a series of cartoons themed around a girl walking through the traditional village. In one, a smiling girl in a pink dress leans against a worn-out stone wall beside a traditional home, poking her head out as if playing hide-and-seek. The cartoons received 500,000 views on Sina Weibo alone. "I am happy that people have gotten to know the village and its beauty through my work," Gao said. "I'll keep creating." Though away from the city, Gao said she finds the village "full of energy". Musicians gather regularly in the bar to perform live music. "Many elderly villagers come to watch their performances," Chen said. "I think they feel less lonely here than staying at home in the evening." Chen's son, Chen Zhongye, a 24-year-old graphic designer working in the provincial capital of Fuzhou, is considering relocating to Longtan after seeing all the changes in the village. "Sometimes I stay up late to watch videos about our village that my father shares in our group chat," he said, referring to the village's WeChat group of 404 people. "Now, with so many artists coming, more possibilities and opportunities will come."
Bria, Central African Republic - Ibrahim Alawad, a "general" in an armed group, is a portly man. He walks with a limp and carries a pistol tucked in the back of his trousers. He has an easy smile and charisma that can easily draw you in. His limp, Alawad tells us, is from a bullet wound during fighting with a rival armed group. Alawad sits here in Bria, a strategic territory in the eastern Central African Republic (CAR) that has the biggest diamond mines in the country. The "general" is part of the Popular Front for the Renaissance of Central African Republic (FPRC), the largest of four armed groups that broke away from the defunct, Muslim-led Seleka rebel movement, a coalition of fighters who marched to the capital Bangui in 2013 and deposed Francois Bozize as president. A hurriedly formed, largely Christian group called Anti-balaka countered ex-Seleka and overthrew Michel Djotodia, the man who was put in power after Bozize. Since then, fighting has never really stopped. More than a million people have been displaced and half the population needs humanitarian aid. Lawyer by profession Alawad plays down his role in Bria but all his actions suggest that he is very much the man in charge. He was educated at Cambridge University in the UK and is a lawyer by profession. So what is a Cambridge-educated lawyer doing in this corner of CAR as a rebel? Alawad puts it this way: He wants to save his fellow citizens from bad governance. "CAR is rich in natural resources. You won't believe that before all this, monthly taxes from diamonds in Bria were about $12m," he told Al Jazeera. "But look now, we have nothing. No proper schools, electricity clean water - nothing. Before marching to Bangui we had tried to talk to the government on how to help the people. "We proposed sharing resources in a fair way. The government refused. Our problem is not to rule the country. We want to uplift Central Africans. We have a bad governance system that needs to be fixed." Though the conflict has an element of religion, it's increasingly turning into a turf war, with armed groups splintering and fighting over mineral resources, trade, cattle and supply routes. The groups form uneasy alliances across the ethnic and religious divides, but when they break up, civilians bear the consequences. The worst of fighting Bria has seen the worst of fighting in recent times. FPRC and the Anti-balaka group briefly united against a Fulani-dominated faction called Union for Peace for Central African Republic (UPC). The UPC is another group that was once part of Seleka. When it was defeated, members of the winning coalition turned on each other. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says at least 70,000 people have been displaced in Bria since fighting began at the end of 2016. Most of the displaced Christians are now in a crowded camp for displaced people at the edge of town and right on the doorstep of a UN peacekeepers' base. UN officials told us the camp is infiltrated by armed Anti-balaka men. Alexi Zinga is among the young men in the camp suspected to be part of the group. He denied the claim and told us that, at the height of the conflict, if was not for the Anti-balaka's protection, the people in the camp would be dead. "They protected us, but they are not here anymore." Scared or unwilling Other displaced people we tried to speak with were either too scared or unwilling to say anything about the allegations. Displaced Muslims took shelter in the town centre, where the FPRC rebels have their main base. Hundreds are still camped in the compound of the main hospital. The Fulani community also has its own enclave. These are people who, before last year, lived side by side. Now the situation in Bria, as in so many other towns in CAR, has forced them to create their own ethnic and religious boundaries. There was hope two years ago that the election of President Faustin-Archange Touadera would bring real change. But Touadera has been unable to extend his authority beyond the capital, Bangui, and his government heavily relies on the UN Mission and other international partners. The conflict is escalating and spreading to areas once considered relatively peaceful. 'Christian neighbourhood' Since January, Bria has not seen the kind of violence witnessed last year, and some people are attempting to return to their homes. Alawad explained to us that his fighters do not want to harm anyone, adding that those displaced should not be afraid. Benoit Yanny took up that offer and is living in what is now a "Christian neighbourhood", very close to the camp for internally displaced people. He told us that he is able to go to the Muslim-dominated market during the day but he must leave before nightfall. Yanny also said he does not trust the FPRC. This is a drama that plays out in many other parts of the country: armed groups mostly fighting for control of "rich" territories; the UN peacekeeping mission and CAR national army overwhelmed; and people such as Yanny caught between the different forces.
Updated April 03, 2018 14:03:43 There are early signs that two small species of hare wallaby once widespread but now surviving in just two tiny populations off the WA coast can bounce back. Rufous and banded hare wallabies are slightly smaller than quokkas and were dubbed hare wallabies by early European scientists due to their rabbit-like ears. "They are marsupials and they were relatively widespread on the mainland 200 years ago," Keith Morris, senior principal research scientist at the Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions (DBCA), said. "Over time their range has contracted due to predation by introduced cats and foxes but also land clearing." Their home is the tiny Bernier and Dorre islands, 50 kilometres off the coast of Carnarvon. There they are fairly protected from introduced predators but their numbers are still low. Photo: Keith Morris releasing a hare wallaby on Dirk Hartog Island (Supplied: Claudia Buters, Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions) Mr Morris and his DBCA team hope to build the population by introducing them to the much larger Dirk Hartog Island. "One of our roles is to try and improve the conservation status of some of these animals that have nearly dropped off the planet and only exist on a couple of small islands," he said. "The Dirk Hartog Fauna Reconstruction Project offers an opportunity to put several species back onto a large island, and to get really large populations of these rare and threatened mammals that we have nearly lost in Australia." Dirk Hartog Island, 850 kilometres north of Perth, was a pastoral station until 2009. It then became a national park and work began to remove feral goats and cats from the island. The 620-square-kilometre island is now the location of the largest fauna reconstruction project in Australia. "This is the largest island in the world to have had feral cats removed," Mr Morris said. "The fauna reconstruction project runs from 2018 to 2030, and it's going to translocate 12 species of mammal and one species of bird. Photo: In 2016, Belgian shepherds were used to search for feral cats on Dirk Hartog Island. (Supplied: WA Parks and Wildlife) While remote, Dirk Hartog Island is open to visitors who want to fish and take excursions into the national park. "That is another advantage of what we are doing for tourism in the Shark Bay area," Mr Morris said. But it's unlikely that tourists will be snapping selfies with an adorable hare wallaby any time soon. "They are pretty much nocturnal like most of our native mammals," Mr Morris said. "That is one of the drawbacks when promoting our native animals, is the fact that you really have to be out at night to see them." Photo: It's hoped the clear blue waters and opportunities to see rare native animals will boost eco-tourism on Dirk Hartog Island. (Chris Lewis, ABC Midwest and Wheatbelt) Late last year 12 rufous hare wallabies and 12 banded hare wallabies were released on Dirk Hartog — and the early signs are that they're doing well. Mr Morris's team is planning to return to check on their progress sometime in April. "We already have evidence that they are breeding on Dirk Hartog," Mr Morris said. "Even before we finished our intensive monitoring in November last year, I think we had five animals with pouch young. Since then there will have been more born on Dirk Hartog. "That's pretty good, to get recruitment into the population with such a low number of founders. Topics: animals, animal-science, endangered-and-protected-species, conservation, environment, marsupials, perth-6000 First posted April 03, 2018 13:53:43
Lithium booms shows no sign of slowing as new refinery announced for WA Posted June 06, 2018 15:23:12 A Western Australian lithium miner is tipping the current boom for battery technologies will last at least a decade, as plans were revealed on Wednesday for a new lithium refinery in the Goldfields. China's appetite for lithium continues to drive the boom, with lithium most commonly used in new generation batteries for electric vehicles and home power storage. Lithium miner Neometals has revealed plans to build a downstream processing plant in Kalgoorlie-Boulder at a cost of about $200 million, creating more than 100 jobs. The decision marks potentially the biggest economic shake-up for the regional mining hub since the construction of the Kalgoorlie Nickel Smelter in the 1970s and the start of the Super Pit gold mine in the late 1980s. New lithium refinery to employ about 100 Neometals owns a 13.8 per cent stake in the Mt Marion lithium mine, 40km south-east of Kalgoorlie-Boulder. Photo: Neometals CEO Chris Reed at last year's Diggers and Dealers Mining Forum. (ABC Goldfields-Esperance: Jarrod Lucas ) The ASX-listed miner has struck a deal with the Kalgoorlie-Boulder City Council to sub-lease a 40-hectare site in a new industrial estate in West Kalgoorlie. Chief executive Chris Reed said a final investment decision was due by the middle of next year following the completion of feasibility studies. "The Kalgoorlie Lithium Refinery will look to employ more than 100 people ... we've got more than 200 workers down at Mt Marion," he said. "It will be a bit like when they put the nickel smelter there; there will be a new generation of jobs for the town of Kalgoorlie." Choosing mining town for refinery 'makes sense' The land, adjacent the Great Eastern Highway, is being leased from the State Government by the Kalgoorlie-Boulder City Council for 21 years, with an option for a further 21 years. Photo: Kalgoorlie-Boulder Mayor John Bowler at the launch of the city's 125th anniversary celebrations earlier this year. (ABC Goldfields-Esperance: Jarrod Lucas ) The proposed site is only 70km from Mt Marion, 5km from the Kalgoorlie township and adjacent to critical rail and power infrastructure. The Kalgoorlie Lithium Refinery would have an initial production capacity of 10,000 tonnes per annum of lithium hydroxide. Mr Reed said the decision to build the refinery in Kalgoorlie-Boulder "makes sense" because it has access to power, water, gas, and the skilled workforce of an established mining town. "If you've bought an Apple product in the last year, there's a 50 per cent chance the lithium came from Mt Marion," Mr Reed said. "What we want to do is downstream process our lithium concentrate, which we currently export to China, to turn that into lithium hydroxide and add value." Refineries proposed for Kwinana, Pilbara, Goldfields Regional Development Minister Alannah MacTiernan said the mining and processing of technology metals would provide "a new golden age" for the Goldfields. The Neometals plant is the fourth lithium refinery planned for WA, whereas many industry pundits previously expressed doubts over whether the state could be cost competitive with China. The Chinese co-owners of the Greenbushes mine in the state's south-west are due to finish construction of a $400 million plant at Kwinana later this year. Photo: Lithium concentrate from the Mt Cattlin mine is loaded onto ships at Esperance Port. (Supplied: Galaxy Resources) Last month, the developers of the Mt Holland mine in the Goldfields settled on a site in Kwinana for a new refinery. Pilbara miner Mineral Resources is also in the late stages of a feasibility study for a refinery at its Wodgina operations near Port Hedland. Mineral Resources has estimated it can build two 28,000-tonne lithium hydroxide modules at its Wodgina mine for about US$300 million per module. Government taskforce seeks to cash in on boom Wednesday's announcement comes just days after the State Government created a taskforce to capitalise on the current lithium boom. The taskforce, to be chaired by Mines Minister Bill Johnston, will engage with the sector to make the most of what the government is calling a "once-in-a-lifetime lithium opportunity". It is due to report back with a list of recommendations in October. WA could be global 'hub for lithium' Mark Calderwood, CEO of Tawana Resources which operates the Bald Hill lithium mine in the Goldfields, said the lithium boom could last for another decade. "I think this industry is going to have some legs," he said. The Greenbushes mine in the south-west was the only lithium mine in WA two years ago. Now there are seven operating mines, with the Mt Holland mine near Southern Cross due to come into production next year. Mine life extended at Bald Hill Mr Calderwood's company today announced a mine life extension for the Bald Hill mine near Kambalda, which now has enough resources to last for nine years at current production levels. Bald Hill only shipped its first product to China via Esperance Port last month. "I don't see a lot more in WA coming on after those eight [mines]," Mr Calderwood said. "We can certainly support more [production, and] these mines will also up their production rates. "The take-up of lithium demand will take the next 10 years, but I think the companies will match that." Topics: mining-industry, mining-rural, chemicals-and-pharmaceuticals, industry, local-government, kalgoorlie-6430, perth-6000, kwinana-town-centre-6167, port-hedland-6721
A mason fulfills his wish in contributing to the rebuilding of the Wangduephodrang dzong Choekhorthangkha looks devoid of the glory and the powerful majestic aura it once boasted over the expansive Wangdue valley. Wangduephodrang dzong, the edifice of power and a marvel of Bhutanese architecture, stood at the site for nearly four centuries. The dzong was lost to fire in June 2012. The incident shocked the people of Sha Dargye. It was their symbol of worship, their pride. But for 51-year-old, Phurba from Rinchengang, Wangduephodrang, the ruins of the fortress are still his pride. Phurba has grown under the shadow of the dzong and his late grandfather who was one of its builders. Each passing day, he looked up to the gigantic magnificent structure and wished he could build one himself, someday. Phurba comes from a family of artisans. His ancestors worked as masons when the dzong was built 374 years ago. He is one of the three chief masons working on the Wangduephodrang reconstruction project today. “I decided to contribute in its reconstruction until the end or until life would allow me to.” He is supervising men cutting boulders with machines. He hops from one group of men to another throwing loud instructions over the din of rock-cutting machines, waving, and checking if the stones have been cut in the right size. Phurba started working on the project three years ago. The seasoned mason has an experience of more than 17 years of renovating more than 10 historic monuments such as Punakha Dzong, Dongkola monastery in Paro, Nyezergang Lhakhang in Wangduephodrang, and Gangkha lhakhang in Chapcha, Chukha, among others. While the goal has remained the same, which is to build the dzong to fulfil the vision and wish of the Zhabdrung, the means have definitely made it easy for the present generation. The father of five is delighted with the advent of machines for they have cut their days of labour from years to months. “I have heard stories of how they struggled for days to get boulders, cut them into shape and place them on the walls. Today, it’s a matter of a few hours,” he said. The reconstruction project, which will complete in December 2021, uses electric rock-cutting machines. The boulders are transported from Tsirang. Rocks and the mud motor are inspected before they are approved for use. The dzong will be the first to have an underground service tunnel for electricity, telephone and Internet lines, water pipes, and sewer lines. The tunnel, wide enough for two to walk at a time, will be used during emergencies. He said, the residents of the region-contributed labour for months when the dzong was built. “Today, labourers are paid daily wage, work with modern safety gears, equipment, and given numerous other benefits,” Phurba said. “Those working at the time of my grandfather were definitely much better artisans: working harder given the limited resources.” The mammoth task of restoring the dzong to its former glory would not be possible if not for the command of His Majesty The King and support of the people. The project has seen a large number of people turn up to serve lunch to workers. So far groups of sponsors have served 133 tokha to the workers at the site. About 4,300 individuals contributed 4,150 man-days of work. Residents from Wangdue contributed labour initially. Today, most of the workers at the site are from Tsirang. A story behind building the dzong at Choekhorthangkha goes something like this. While in Chimmi lhakhang, Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyel met an old physically challenged man who told him that he would unite the country if he built a dzong on a ridge that resembled a sleeping elephant in Wangduephodrang. Zhabdrung surmised that the old man was the guardian deity, Yeshey Goenpo or Mahakala. He immediately dispatched one of his followers to study the location. The man returned and reported seeing four ravens circling the ridge, which flew away in four different directions on his arrival. This was considered an auspicious sign, representing the spread of religion in the four directions. Considering this to be a good omen, Zhabdrung constructed the dzong in 1638. Wangduephodrang dzong lies on a ridge between Punatsangchhu and Dangchu in the windy afternoon overlooking Rinchengang on the right. Strategic location of the dzongs was one of the main factors that have led to the successful unification of the country. Wangduephodrang Dzong was built to put Sha-Dagye (eight eastern regions adjacent to Punakha) under control of Zhabdrung. The governor of Wangduephodrang became the third most powerful ruler, after Paro and Trongsa. The dzong’s strategic position gave him control of the routes to Trongsa, Punakha, Dagana and Thimphu. The dzong is on the tentative list of the Once complete, the dzong will house the clergy and the offices of the dzongkhag administration. As he overseas the work, Phurba cherishes his blessings everyday he comes to work. “This is my final mission,” he said. “The opportunity to work on the reconstruction of the dzong is the best reward for my skill. I can now die a proud man.”
FLAGSTAFF — Roden Crater rises far from homes and paved roads, separated from civilization not just by distance but by a sternly worded “No trespassing” sign at the only gap in a barbed-wire fence. It stands alone in Arizona’s high desert northeast of Flagstaff, an extinct volcano smoothed by eons of wind and rain, a formidable island in a sea of grass. Rising 600 feet, the formation blends into a vast landscape of rounded hills and brush-covered cinder cones, allowing Roden Crater to hide its secret in plain sight. Within this geological dome, one man has worked off and on for nearly 40 years to transform it into a work of art of designed to bring the celestial to Earth. More: James Turrell: Artist has blazed a career in light, shadow and illusion Noted artist James Turrell, whose installations manipulate light and shadows to turn ordinary settings into mystical spaces, has tunneled through, hollowed out and sculpted Roden Crater over the past four decades. When Turrell is finished — and no one has any idea when that might be — the modest cinder-cone volcano will be perhaps the largest, if not the most significant, piece of land art in the world. Roden Crater: A closely guarded secret Not that anyone outside Turrell’s fan base, or the art world in general, would know. Turrell toils in relative obscurity. Roden Crater has hosted well-heeled patrons as well as construction crews busy on the latest phase of Turrell’s life work. Still, odds are good you’ve never heard of it. Over the past two years, a little light has been shed on the project. Skystone Foundation, the project’s fundraising arm, posts updates to Roden Crater’s website and Facebook page, largely to solicit donors. The project, which the 75-year-old Turrell started in 1979, also is on Instagram, and has been profiled a handful of times in the media. But if you drop by the Flagstaff Visitor Center for directions to Roden Crater — which very few people do — you’re very politely urged to abandon such plans because there are no maps, the route is tricky and the crater is off limits to the public. All of which is correct, giving off an Area 51 vibe enhanced by a journey over unpaved back roads through cattle country. Which is just what Ryan Sawyer was thinking as he walked along the barbed-wire fence about a mile from Roden Crater. At least the New York City resident was fairly certain it was Roden Crater, since it matched the photos he'd seen. James Turrell fans on a pilgrimage For followers of James Turrell, Roden Crater is their Mecca. And this trip into the high desert, Sawyer admitted, was much like a pilgrimage. When he and a fellow Turrell fan headed out in a rented SUV to find the dormant volcano, Sawyer wasn't sure he was on the right track. He put his faith in Google Maps, which traced an iffy route along a sketchy back road. With each rise they crested, the two expected to see the legendary hill. There were a few times they nearly turned around, Sawyer said, but thoughts of seeing Turrell's sketches of the project more than 20 years ago spurred them on. "I remember thinking how incredible it was that he was transforming a crater," Sawyer said. "I knew one day I'd have to see it." That day arrived when he and his friend (who preferred not to be named) arrived in Flagstaff for a wedding. They rented a car with every intention of seeing the Grand Canyon. Instead they headed northeast to see what few people had. When they first noticed a sizable bump on the horizon, they felt it had to be Roden Crater. A few miles later, they saw the "No Trespassing" sign and were sure of it. Sawyer pulled off the road and parked on a bare patch of ground next to the fence. He said he and his friend then walked along the crude barbed-wire fence hoping to get a better look while being careful not to tread on prohibited territory. After a quarter-mile stroll, a man in a pickup truck pulled up on the opposite side of the fence. “He asked us nicely to go back to our car and head back the way we came, that we were on private land,” Sawyer said. They did just that. Neither had expected to get as close as they did. Sawyer said he was happy with photos and, even better, the story of his expedition. “Of course I’d love to see inside. The photos look amazing,” he said. “Maybe one day.” Remaking a crater into an art piece If not for a flight over Roden Crater in the 1970s, a project nearly 40 years in the making may never have been started. Turrell had already established himself as one of the country’s most talented artists when it came to manipulation of light and shadow. His career would take a dramatic turn when, on a flight over northern Arizona, he noticed a dormant cinder cone far from anything. He envisioned it as a place where sky and land could come together, carving corridors and apertures that would allow people to experience the sun and stars rather than merely observe them. After purchasing Roden Crater in 1977, he designed corridors and chambers that would bring in light from the sun, moon and stars, the hues and shadows shifting throughout the year. Turrell also consulted with astronomers to plot precise alignments that would capture celestial events, including the summer and winter solstices. The first thing he did was shape the top of the cone to his liking, moving 1.3 million cubic yards of earth to form the Crater Bowl, according to the Roden Crater website. Workers then dug the 854-foot-long Alpha Tunnel on the east slope, building another tunnel connecting it to the Crater Bowl. The two were the first of six planned tunnels and 21 viewing spaces. Fundraising sputtered, partly because of the secrecy about the crater, and again during the 2008 recession. Construction was delayed, proving Turrell’s early deadlines were far too ambitious. Now there is no mention of an opening date on Roden’s website. Even Turrell has made light of the slow progress, addressing it in the documentary, “James Turrell: You Who Look,” a clip of which was posted on Roden Crater’s Instagram. “Roden Crater will now be seen as a life’s work even though I never intended it that way,” he says. “It’s sort of like your friends who never finish their doctoral thesis. Still working on it though. It’s coming.” Turrell allows a select few inside Shortly after 4 p.m., a dozen or so widely spaced pickup trucks drive past Roden Crater’s unmanned gate, each carrying one or two people clad in bright orange shirts, some wearing hard hats. Plumes of dust raise into a clear blue sky, trailing the vehicles back to civilization. According to an April newsletter to donors, workers have installed concrete walls and columns for the South Space. The site also is being prepped for an intricately crafted instrument of marble and bronze that will track the stars. Officials hope to have the dirt road bladed each time a delivery truck arrives to ensure sensitive instruments will be in perfect condition. As work progresses on Roden, Turrell has allowed a select few inside. Museum officials, art colleagues and a few celebrities have made the trip, as well as generous patrons. Every now and then he opens it to those who don’t blink at the price, as in 2015 when guests paid $5,000, plus an additional $1,500 for meals, a hotel room and tour, Artnews.com reported. A 2013 New York Times Magazine profile of Turrell said, “An invitation to visit Roden is one of the most coveted tickets in American art.” Turrell has gone to great lengths to establish a daunting barrier around the crater. In 1979, he purchased 155 square miles of ranch land around Roden, and 14 years later his ranch had grown to 277 square miles, according to the New York Times story. There is still much work to be done. Five years ago, Skystone officials told the Los Angeles Times the project was about 35 percent done. The newspaper reported that $15 million had been sunk into the crater by that point. In sporadic newsletters to donors, the Roden Art Foundation offers fundraising and construction updates, but a completion date remains ephemeral. At nearly 40 years and still going, the Roden Crater project has been a part of Turrell for more than half his lifetime. There are no guarantees that it will be finished before he can no longer contribute, though various reports say Turrell has left plans in place to ensure that it is completed. Even if that occurs, the guest list is likely to remain very exclusive, said Phoenix Art Museum curator Gilbert Vicario. “In projects like this, the artist isn’t thinking about a turnstile gate with people flooding in,” Vicario said. “It’s a very personal, very private experience, and you want to try to control that as much as possible.” When will Turrell finish Roden Crater? The project was never supposed to take this long, Turrell has said in previous interviews. (He could not be reached for this story.) Turrell had planned to finish Roden Crater in 1994, according to a 1989 story in The Arizona Republic. In 2001, Artnet.com reported the project was “$12 million and many months away from its final form.” Today, work continues with no publicized completion date. But when the site does open, experts believe it will be a monumental work drawing visitors from around the world. Tom Patin, director of the School of Art at Northern Arizona University, said he visited Roden eight to 10 years ago when construction equipment littered the site and many areas were roped off. He was astounded by its scope. “Within the larger context of art history,” Patin said via email, “it’s generally considered one of a number of historically significant pieces that still exist from that era (of the 1960s and 70s).” Noted art expert Almine Ruiz-Picasso, owner of the prestigious Almine Rech Gallery in New York, Paris, London and Brussels, told Artnet that Roden Crater is the most iconic work of art in the 21st century. To some, Turrell’s work on Roden Crater has become mythic, the anticipation growing as the years pass. That’s because the project is as ambitious as it is audacious, Vicario said. “It has the three things all curators look for,” he said. “Risk, danger and impossibility … It’s clearly a work that will take a considerable amount of time to finish.” Read or Share this story: https://azc.cc/2rGwHal
It is a season of blood flow in Taraba State. People are killed on a daily basis in violent confrontations impelled by drive for grazing fields, farmlands and allegations of cow rustling. The Northeast state which prides itself as nature’s gift is enveloped in fear. No fewer than 73 persons were believed to have died from communal clashes between the Hausa-Fulani and Yandang communities in Lau Local Government Area of the state. About 50 villages were also burnt. By the time the dust settled, more than 3,000 people had become homeless. Only last Sunday, residents of the local government area were preparing their evening meals when they heard bone-chilling sounds of gunshots. The staccato sound of gunshots was not new to residents. A killer militia masquerading as herdsmen had invaded the vast swathe of the council area. Without being told, they ran helter-skelter for dear lives, but it was too late. Forty-two persons, mainly aged men, women and children, were reportedly fell by bullets from the guns of the gunmen. A heart-rending story was told of how a septuagenarian woman ran to hide herself in a flowering shrub but had her throat sliced by another set of herdsmen who had laid ambush. In all, more than 20 villages were sacked, crop farms destroyed and homes torched. When our correspondent visited the scenes of slaughter on Tuesday, the affected villages looked like ‘ghost towns.’ Lau was completely deserted. Not even security personnel were seen, even though police spokesman, David Misal, said SARS and MOPOL commanders had “temporarily” relocated to the affected areas to calm the situation. Among the affected villages are Bujum-Yashi, Bujum-Wagure, Bujum-Waya, Wagure, Bujum-Kasuwa, Bujum-Centre, Yoti, Galadimawa, Bamga-Dutse, San-Turaki and Mayo-Lope. Others are Yilti, Bunzung, Sabon-Gida, Kwajafa, Sobon-Layi, Budon, Bawa-Garki and Kpanti Ladi. “They came and began to attack and kill, without provocation. You can see how they have burnt down all the villages,” lamented Bitru Dare, a resident of Bujum-Kasuwa. The Chairman of Lau Local Government Council, Weni Yafi Weni, who conducted reporters round the rubbles, cried out that the state and federal government should jointly wade in and stop the crisis. He said: “I see no end to this crisis, and I can see hunger looming because we are in rainy season and nobody is farming. The little farms made have been destroyed. “I am calling on the government to provide enough security for displaced people to return to their homes.” In January, 68 persons were killed by herdsmen in the same Lau villages. When Benue State lowered its flag as it buried 73 victims of herdsmen attack in brown boxes, Taraba committed their dead to earth in mass graves, without caskets. The latest attacks have displaced more than 3000 persons, some of them sustaining severe injuries. The bulk of the displaced persons are taking refuge in Negatavah Primary and Secondary school in Jalingo while others are camped in Pupule and Pantisawa, all in neighbouring Yorro Local Government Area. Camps of despair A visit to the internally displaced persons (IDP) camps revealed a people in anguish and without hope. As the children can no longer attend schools in their ancestral districts, so their parents have abandoned their jobs, predominantly farming and teaching. They sleep on bare floor while they are bitten by mosquitoes and other insects. They look hungry, with symptoms of ill health. What about the rains that hit them when there is cloudburst? They have no basic utilities such as clothing items and cooking utensils. Yet, they live in fear that even in the camps, they could be attacked. The Nation gathered that the displaced persons are a distraction to pupils that school in those camps. Some women, for instance, bathe in the open, it was learnt. Police spokesman, David Misal, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), said the Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations were shuttling the camps on a daily basis to monitor the situation. He added: “We are also engaging critical stakeholders from the area in series of meetings with a view to restoring peace.” Taraba State Deputy Governor, Haruna Manu, at the prompting of Governor Darius Ishaku on Monday visited the IDP camps in Pantisawa and Pupule, all in Yorro Local Government Area. He was accompanied by the Deputy Speaker, Mohammed Gwampo, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Anthony Jellason, the Military Commander, MS Adamu and the Commissioner of Police, David Akinremi. The deputy governor was received by the council chairman of Yorro, Joseph Sonweri; the chief of Pupule (Kpantin Kwaji), HRH Abubakar Buba Nyala and the chief of Mumuye, HRH Ado Adamu Mazan. Manu brought the affected ethnic groups, Yandang, Mumuye and Fulani, together, to listen to details of the crisis. After listening to all the parties, the deputy governor told them the hard truth: “Nobody can bring peace to you; you must crave for it. “Peace lies in your very hands. And the government is preaching peace but you prefer violence. You are the ones to suffer the consequences. We are tired of continuously begging you to embrace truce. “If you invite an outsider to come and assist you to fight, in the end, you are the one to feel the brunt. Peace is the prerequisite for sustainable development. “In crisis, you and your children will not achieve anything in life. You must shun the sentiments of ethnicity and religion. You must co-habit, whether you like it or not. So, don’t be deceived.” Manu noted that the crisis has brought Taraba State several steps backward. Herdsmen kill six in cattle market Despite the deputy governor’s warning on Monday, herdsmen struck at a suburb of Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, on Tuesday, killing six traders at Iware market. The deceased were also robbed of their cash, it was learnt. Five of the victims are natives of Mayo-Lope, Lau Local Government Area which is already sacked by herdsmen violence. The other victim, whose name was given as Ethan Nast, is a resident of Damsa Local Government Area of Adamawa State. The victims were accused of cow rustling. But a dependable source said: “The men, already displaced by crisis involving herdsmen in their area (Lau) on Tuesday came to Iware market with their cows to sell, do some other businesses and alleviate their suffering. But they were trailed by their assailants all the way from Mayo-Lope, who hacked them to death at the market square.” The source added that the killers disappeared immediately after the attack. Eyewitnesses said the killers invaded the market as though they were traders. A source said as the market began to swell with buyers and sellers, the attackers emerged from the crowd in large numbers and started attacking the victims with machete. Four bodies were counted immediately. One of the victims identified as Baban Lumu, a cement dealer from Mayo-Lope, was fleeing from his attackers to a nearby police post. But no sooner had he arrived the police station than he fell down and died from the multiple cuts inflicted on him. Police recovered N80,050 from him. Another victim died in hospital. “The market was disrupted as everyone ran for dear lives,” an eyewitness told The Nation. Armed policemen, led by a Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Abubakar Inusa, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), arrived the scene in the nick of time. They were seen battling hard to restore normalcy and convey the injured to the hospital. Three persons who were seriously injured were taken to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Jalingo, but one of them died in the hospital of “excess bleeding.” Six bodies were deposited at FMC’s morgue. The arrival of the bodies threw the hospital into mourning with many patients, particularly women, wailing and weeping. Police spokesman, David Misal, who confirmed the attack and killings to our correspondent, said: “Six people were killed at Iware market by yet-to-be-identified persons. “Some people brought cows to the market to sell but were attacked and killed when information got to herdsmen that the cows were stolen ones,” he said. Misal, who said the police were able to restore calm in the area, disclosed that the Police Command was gathering intelligence on how to trace those behind the attack and whether the attack was a spill over from the violence in Lau. “We are trying to find out the perpetrators who took the law into their hands instead of reporting to us, if really a case of cattle rustling was established,” he said. Governor condemns killings Governor Darius Ishaku has condemned the killing of traders by herdsmen in the state. He said although cattle rustling is a crime that cannot be condoned by the authorities, the allegation that the victims had stolen cows was not enough reason to kill them. The governor visited the scene of the incident on Tuesday while returning from Makurdi, Benue State, where he had attended a function with the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, and Middle Belt leaders, calling for the restructuring of Nigeria, particularly the security architecture. The governor on Wednesday met with the Commissioner of Police in the state and the Divisional Police Officer of the area “to look into the details of the killings and for proper handling of the matter.” Speaking with our correspondent, Governor Ishaku said: “The victims were accused of stealing cows, but that is not enough reason to waste their lives. It is unfortunate that today, everyone has the audacity to kill at will. The security architecture of this country must be restructured.” The Yandang community in the state on Wednesday said the killing of six Yandang traders at Iware market square brought the total number of its natives killed by herdsmen to 62, only from last Sunday. Leader of the Yandang ethnic group, Alfred Kobbiba, who condemned the attack and killing, said the victims were not cattle rustlers. “All the six people killed in Iware cattle market are well known to me and I can attest to their good character. The cows they brought to the market for sale were their personal cows. Our people are in the business of cattle rearing too, contrary to the claims of the attackers. “If the cows were really stolen from them, why didn’t they report the matter for their cows to be returned? Instead, they killed the people and disappeared.” Kobbiba, a Special Adviser to Governor Darius Ishaku on Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), said they were demanding justice over the dastardly act.
Then, after a period of heavy rainfall late last month, a massive crack was exposed. According to the local news outlet, Daily Nation, it measures 50 feet deep and 65 feet wide in some spots. Geologist David Adede, who spoke with the paper, said the crack was likely filled previously with volcanic ash from nearby Mt. Longonot. This means the space was only exposed when rainwater washed the ash away. Reuters reports that the opening formed rapidly. One resident named Eliud Njoroge Mbugua saw the crack run through his home. He was only narrowly able to collect some of his belongings before his house collapsed. So what caused the break in the first place? The name is often used to refer to a cultural region from the Middle East to Mozambique, but is not actually connected to the same unit. Rather it's made of multiple rifts all running through the same system. (Read more about the social rifts felt in this region.) A rift valley refers to a lowland region where tectonic plates rift, or move apart. The large crack that recently exposed itself in Kenya is from the East African Rift. In the 3,700 mile-long East African Rift, there are two smaller systems called the Gregory Rift and the Western Rift, and each is speckled with volcanoes. The rifts are growing larger as two tectonic plates, the Somali plate in the east and the Nubian plate in the west, move away from each other. The region has yielded some of history's most important archaeological finds and has been nicknamed the “cradle of humanity.” “Turkana boy,” a 1.5-million-year-old hominin skeleton was found there. It's an important piece of evidence for scientists piecing together our prehistoric past. While it's one of the largest, the East African Rift isn't the only geological formation of its kind. Eastern Russia is home to the Baikal Rift Valley, and Antarctica is separated by the West Antarctic Rift. In the U.S., the southwest is sliced by the Rio Grande Rift Valley, which stretches from Chihuahua, Mexico to Colorado. It's formation, roughly 30 million years ago, is responsible for the Rio Grande River bordering the southern U.S. Eventually, the Somali plate may completely separate from the Nubian plate and form a separate land mass comparable to Madagascar or New Zealand. Fortunately for those who live there, that separation isn't expected to happen for another 50 million years. It does mean, however, that the physical effects of that separation will continue to be felt. Local outlet NTV reported that in the days since the rift occurred, the crack has been filled in with a mix of concrete and rocks and is being used as a road once again. Writing in the Conversation, researcher Lucia Perez Diaz from Royal Holloway, University of London noted that the rift will slowly split apart at different rates. The northern region is coated with volcanic rocks, she notes, meaning it may be the first region to break up.
"So where will the plants, trees, water and wildlife go? They can't go to doctors, can they? And where will the Royal Bengal Tiger go," asked an anguished professor in the Department of Environment Sciences in Khulna University, close to the Sunderbans, in Bangladesh. The wildlife will surely migrate, including the birds, the various kinds of river fish and sea fish, the crabs and dolphins, and surely, the majestic tiger, surviving in the only zone where man-eaters are allowed to roam free. They will perhaps move to the deeper core of the vast mangrove forests, stretching around 5,000 sq km in Bangladesh, and, then, perhaps, into the Indian Sunderbans in West Bengal, just about 3,000 sq km, across a fluid, watery and mangrove forested geographical boundary with no real line of control. However, what will happen when even the Indian Sunderbans get polluted, losing its original chronicle of a saline tale foretold? Where will they go, and the tiger? The Rampal thermal power project, currently in its first phase of construction, deep inside into the buffer and twilight zones of the Sunderbans in Bangladesh, is in grave and imminent danger. The signs are all there for the world to see. A slated coal-fired power station at Rampal sub-division of Bagerhat, Bangladesh, near Khulna, is the monster that is threatening to change the entire ecological dynamics of this hot spot. A joint partnership between India's National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDP), the project is being branded as the Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company. The proposed project, which is set to generate 1,320MW of power, over a territory of 1,834 acres of land, water bodies, and forests, is just about 14km north of the world's largest mangrove forest, Sunderbans, a UNESCO world heritage site. Journalists are not allowed near the site, surrounded by the buffer forests and the shoreline of the beautiful saline estuary, Poshur, along with numerous ponds, fisheries, human habitations and fertile land. Civil society activists, intellectuals, foreign delegations and others are not allowed in the vicinity. Peaceful dharnas, demonstrations, wall writing, even leaflets are not allowed. The clampdown is near total around this gigantic project which has reportedly displaced around 50,000 people, half of them without a penny in compensation because they were daily wagers, fishermen, workers and migrants, with no land or ponds in their name. Those who have fought and organised protests, have been effectively silenced. A local activist had his house burnt down with grave threats to his family. A long march from Dhaka to the site near Khulna, of about 10,000 people and more, led by professors of Dhaka University, students, and farmers/fishermen, was blocked near the project in 2016. After that there has been an eerie silence across the zone, as, locals say, with reportedly around five lakh people to be directly impacted by the project in the days to come. "It is a kind of fascism," said a PhD scholar in Dhaka. Most of the intellectuals who have come out openly are blacklisted. The word, "Rampal" is not even allowed to be uttered in the classroom across university campuses. "There is a strong anti-India feeling across Bangladesh, because Sunderbans is like a pearl for the nation, held with great pride. And this 50:50 project cannot hide the dominant reality - that India is the big brother," said a journalist. Another veteran academic in Dhaka said that since China is entering Bangladesh's political economy in a big way in, India wants to secure its geopolitical hold on what it sees as a "satellite" country in the sub-continent. This professor had mobilised MPs in India. He said a CPI member of Parliament had raised the issue in Parliament but was told by the Indian government that it is a "friendship project" which will benefit Bangladesh. Thereafter, the professor has been denied an Indian visa. However, the uncanny truth is that knowing so well, and with authoritative documentation by experts and environmentalists, and with UNESCO opposing the project, why are both the governments hell-bent on playing with the delicate ecology of the precious landscape of Sunderbans? Bangladesh has gas. It claims it has enough power. It has little coal. India wants to dump its huge stocks of coal. Hence, coal in lakhs of tonnes will be transported from India on huge barges on the waterway and river systems to Mongra Port next to Sunderbans. There have been coal spills in the past, devastating the ecology, which took years to recover. This will be low-cost transportation on water. A railway line is also being contemplated from Kolkata to Jessore near Khulna. Then, the cycle will be complete. So what will happen to the gigantic amount of waste products, fly-ash, chemical waste, hot liquids, etc, generated by the thermal plant? Will they be dumped into the pristine waters and the estuaries? As many as 300 industries are meant to be started in this protected zone, including Special Economic Zones (SPZ). Activists say India and its big business is keenly eyeing a big tradeoff in terms of its pound of flesh in terms of SEZs. Several cement and gas factories are already operating in the buffer zone, very close to the core area where the tiger lives, along with dolphins, crocodiles and other rare species, including precious trees like the Sundari tree, on whose name apparently, the Sunderbans is named. Cement factories in Bangladesh have advertised that they will not use fly-ash in their products. So what will they do with the huge amount of fly-ash generated by the coal-fired project? Many new factories are coming up as complementary projects in anticipation of the big thermal power project. In other words, this ecological heritage site seems doomed in the first instance. The professor at Khulna University said that consequent to waste and chemical disposal, the drastic changes will start happening, slowly and steadily. And since researchers are not allowed in the area, not even to mark the pug marks of the tiger, or study the dolphins, or document the flora and fauna, it might lead to an environmental disaster. The water salinity will go down, thereby changing the soil and water content of what is a tidal river in this region, which leads to the sea and Bay of Bengal, with six hours of jwaar and six hours of bhata. Mangroves will slowly start disappearing. Fish species and crocodiles, along with micro-biological objects, birds and other forms of bio-diversity will disappear or migrate. There will be increased man-animal conflict. Gradually, it will impact the Indian side of the Sunderbans, which is protected by strict laws under the Environment Protection Act and the Wildlife Protection Act, with no industrial activity whatsoever almost 25km from the buffer zone. The tiger will start looking for new habitats. The mangrove forests might lose its originality because it can only thrive under certain fixed saline and temperature conditions. An ecological hot spot will gradually wither away. That is why, top Bangladeshi newspapers are writing editorials and putting the story on page one. In India, the story is still invisible. However, in the days to come, Sunderbans, and its environmental disaster, will be the new magic potion for journalists, looking for that elusive Royal Bengal Tiger, in those thick green and yellow swamps of mangrove, watching you from a distance across the shore of the estuary, like all predators watch their prey. Also read: Cash crush is a serious issue, will hit India hard
Updated April 06, 2018 09:18:23 Have you ever dreamt of fleeing the city and buying a farm in the countryside? Well, you might not need to leave the rat race to get your taste of the farm life after all. As urban farmer Michael Zagoridis discovered, growing fresh food in the city can be done. And what's more, he believes it could help alleviate the stress urban sprawl has put on traditional farmland. "You can live in the city and still … grow food where a lot of the people still like to live." Photo: It took time for the soil at the old lawn bowls site to be made suitable for growing food. (Supplied: Emma Bowen) A few years ago Mr Zagoridis co-founded Pocket City Farms — a not-for-profit association whose flagship site is a converted lawn bowls green barely a stone's throw from Sydney's CBD. It opened in 2016 and includes everything from fruit and vegetables, to chickens, a composting program and a "food forest" that fronts the street where people can freely pick what grows. Volunteers can also trade their manual labour for education and tips on how to create their own urban farms. Photo: Michael Zagoridis tends to the chickens at the farm while Pep the dog watches on. (ABC News) Mr Zagoridis was spurred by what he believes is an unhealthy relationship many city dwellers have with food. "We lived in the city like a lot of young people do and just really didn't have a connection with where our food came from," he said. "There is a real disconnect because food is accessible in supermarkets. "We have been given a false illusion that tomatoes are in season all-year-round, when in actual fact a lot have probably travelled from up north or in really enclosed conditions. "I think more education around that sort of thing is really the way to go." Photo: Volunteers are a key part of Pocket City Farm's operations. (Supplied: Emma Bowen) Lessons from abroad Robyn Alders is from the School of Life and Environmental Sciences at the University of Sydney, and says in recent decades we've swapped one food issue for another. "Farmers and agricultural researchers responded after the Second World War and we now produce more food than ever before," she told ABC Radio National recently. "The trends are a great concern." Professor Alders operates a farm in the NSW Southern Tablelands and said the research showed Australians still weren't eating enough fruit and vegetables. And when it comes to tackling the effect of urban sprawl, she believes Australia could learn from what the Canadian province of British Columbia did in the 1970s. In response to urban sprawl, Canadian authorities created laws that declared huge parts of the region be preserved for farmland Canada's research chair in Food Security and Environment, Lenore Newman — who visited Australia recently to discuss these laws — said they resulted in a "very diverse farm scene". "It's worked well and developed a very mixed and profitable farming scene but there's constant pressure, obviously," she said. "The nice thing about knowing that the farmland is staying put, that it's not going to be developed, is farmers have invested in some crops that take longer. "And they've also diversified and opened farmers markets and farm stores and developed relationships abroad." Topics: sustainable-and-alternative-farming, food-and-cooking, australia First posted April 06, 2018 07:20:21
According to proposed plans, the one-mile-wide and quarter-mile deep mine would destroy over 3,000 acres of wetlands and more than 21 miles of salmon streams. That’s just at the mine site alone. Mining operations would require a power plant generating the energy equivalent of more than half of all homes in Alaska running their lights, heating and everything else at the same time. The plant would also use natural gas delivered by a new 188-mile pipeline stretching across seismically active Cook Inlet from the Kenai Peninsula. Getting supplies in – and copper and gold out – would require building a road more than 80-miles long crossing more than 200 streams. Developers propose building eight large bridges and using an 18-mile ferry journey to cross Lake Iliamna. A port facility would be needed at the end of the road, complete with a two-mile long dock on the western shore of Cook Inlet, known habitat for sea otters, humpback whales, seals, and an endangered population of Beluga whales The natural beauty and bounty of Bristol Bay, Alaska is indisputable. But a proposal to develop an open pit gold and copper mine leaves the region’s future up for a potentially disastrous outcome. The US government is attempting to fast track the permitting process for Pebble Mine, a development that the US Environmental Protection Agency warns would cause irreparable, damaging impacts on both people and nature. Now, the US Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for assessing the mine’s effects on the environment and the public has just 90 days to weigh in on the mining proposal. There is a lot on the line. Bristol Bay, Alaska boasts one of the most productive, unspoiled ecosystems in North America. Home to the world's largest wild salmon fishery, it’s been called America’s fish basket. Bristol Bay is also brimming with sea otters, beluga whales, humpback whales, caribou, brown bears, and moose. While all arctic species face conservation challenges, Bristol Bay’s intact ecosystems provide a rare refuge for fish and wildlife in a warming and more crowded planet. While the mine itself would be a major disruptor to important wildlife habitats and livelihoods, the infrastructure needed to develop and operate Pebble Mine doubles the threat. Over time, the impacts would pile up. Pebble Mine is projected to produce tons of acid mine waste—left over once the copper and gold are sorted out. Plans estimate that after 20 years of operation, roughly 1.1 billion tons of waste would be left in the pit and need to be monitored and maintained in perpetuity. Bristol Bay’s tribes, communities, commercial fishermen, and other stakeholders have waited nearly two decades for a promised mine plan. Unfortunately, the plan just submitted is grossly inadequate to evaluate the mine’s full impacts on a region hugged by national parks and preserves. The lack of detail and lack of adequate scientific research to assess potential impacts are compounded by the Corps of Engineers’ break-neck pace to permit the project. Pebble Mine would be more than a massive whole in the ground. The mine would impact the hydrology of the region, air and water quality, as well as ecosystems, wildlife and fish and recreational resources. The effects could devastate a region that continues to build a vibrant, sustainable economy as it successfully manages its resources. There are a series of public meetings scheduled for the month of April. It’s short notice but it’s not the only way to get on the record with concerns.
On Navajo land in northern Arizona, almost 200 wild horses lay dead. Drought and famine conditions pushed the horses to endlessly search for food and water, yet they were unable to find relief before being overtaken by the elements. Members of the Navajo Nation stumbled upon the dead horses at a mostly-dry watering hole near Gray Mountain, reports CNN. The carcasses, some of them buried neck-deep in mud, were in various stages of decay. A total of 191 horses died, per the official count from tribe officials. “These animals were searching for water to stay alive,” said Navajo Nation Vice President Jonathan Nez. “In the process, they, unfortunately, burrowed themselves into the mud and couldn’t escape because they were so weak.” An unseasonably dry winter and little water runoff at the start of spring are likely behind the drought conditions hitting northern Arizona. Unfortunately, tribe officials do not expect conditions to improve anytime soon and believe there are many more animals yet to found. The watering hole where the dead horses were found is a favorite spot for all kinds of animals to find relief from the dry environment. However, local residents have noticed the pool of water drying up faster and faster with each passing year. Despite suffering drought conditions themselves, many tribe members would bring truckloads of water up to the pond and leave it for the area wildlife. Witnessing the devasting effects of the hot desert, Charlie Smith, Jr. described the scene to CBS News after he visited the watering hole three weeks ago. At that time, there were only 29 dead horses on the ground. On Navajo Nation land, there are tens of thousands of wild horses roaming the countryside. The reservation is over 27,000 square miles and stretches across Arizona, Utah, and New Mexico. While some think the horses should be captured, Navajo officials have mostly halted such roundups, citing spiritual beliefs. To prevent a further pileup of horses, the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs placed fencing around the watering hole on Friday. Heavy equipment was also brought in to move the carcasses closer together, and a fresh coat of hydrated lime was spread over the site to expedite decomposition. Eventually, all the animals will be buried on site. Although the scene is tragic, one small horse less than 4-weeks-old was saved and taken to a vet clinic. The foal was extremely dehydrated, but is expected to survive and ultimately adopted.
By JOHN ANTCZAK LOS ANGELES (AP) — Firefighters toiled in stifling heat Saturday on the lines of destructive wildfires across the U.S. West, making progress against some blazes while struggling to tame others that have forced evacuations of hundreds of homes. In heat-stricken Southern California, powerful winds that sent an overnight inferno hopscotching through the Santa Barbara County community of Goleta vanished in the morning, allowing firefighters to extinguish smoldering ruins of an estimated 20 structures, including homes. Authorities announced that mandatory evacuation orders were being greatly reduced and many of the 2,500 people who fled Friday night would be able to return home by late afternoon. County Fire Chief Eric Peterson thanked residents for heeding the call to evacuate, allowing firefighters to focus on fire suppression rather than rescues. “There very likely would have been fatalities last night had those evacuations not occurred,” Peterson said. The fire’s spread was stopped at about 100 acres (40.5 hectares) in a neighborhood where some houses were in ruins while homes next door were intact. Eric Durtschi stood outside his destroyed house, where a burned-out car stood in the driveway and kids’ bicycles were strewn about. Durtschi, his wife and six children had left Utah and moved in just a few weeks ago. He said he hadn’t yet told his two oldest children their home was gone. He managed to collect his severely burned vintage guns, hoping to salvage them. A neighbor’s home across the street was spared. The man had stayed through the night spraying down other people’s houses. Elsewhere in Southern California, firefighters increased containment of a central San Diego County fire that rapidly spread over 400 acres (162 hectares), destroyed 18 structures and damaged eight, and a wildfire in the San Bernardino National Forest was holding at 1.5 square miles (404 hectares) and forced evacuation of about 700 homes in the mountain community of Forest Falls. Fires also burned on the Marine Corps’ sprawling Camp Pendleton base in northern San Diego County. Among new fires Saturday, a blaze erupted on a steep mountain slope just above the Los Angeles suburb of Burbank and helicopters pounded it with water to try to keep it from getting out of hand. Southern California fires began erupting Friday as strong high pressure over the West spawned an epic heat wave that saw parts of Los Angeles broil in temperatures up to 117 degrees (47.2 Celsius). There was little relief overnight. “Temperatures at 8 a.m. were ridiculously over 100 degrees” in foothills near Forest Falls and many inland valleys, the National Weather Service said. Forecasters said the region’s siege of heat would gradually ease through the weekend, but the unstable air mass unleashed downpours that triggered flash-flood warnings for the mountains northeast of Los Angeles. Further up north and just south of the California-Oregon border, the 34-square-mile (88-square-kilometer) Klamathon Fire in rural Siskiyou County was just 5 percent contained. The body of a resident was found Friday in the ruins of a home, among 15 destroyed structures tallied so far. Authorities described “extreme fire behavior with movement in multiple directions,” with threats to the California communities of Hornbrook and Hilt as well as Colestin, Oregon. Ray Haupt, chairman of the county Board of Supervisors, said losses included homes and livestock. Elsewhere in California, the 138-square-mile (357-square-kilometer) County Fire northwest of Sacramento was more than half contained Saturday. Ten structures were counted destroyed but damage assessments were continuing. With fires occurring statewide, a Colorado-based Boeing 747-400 supertanker was deployed to California. Scott McLean, deputy chief of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, said the supertanker was undergoing checks at an airfield outside Sacramento. Software issues needed to be resolved before the aircraft owned by Global SuperTanker Services of Colorado Springs could be activated under a call-when-needed contract. In Utah, meanwhile, authorities allowed the return of some residents who fled a wildfire near a popular fishing lake 80 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Salt Lake City. The blaze has burned about 75 square miles (193 square kilometers) and destroyed 90 structures, including homes, cabins, sheds and garages, since starting Sunday in the mountains. In Colorado, firefighters took advantage of occasional rainstorms to extend their containment lines at several large wildfires. In the south, crews Saturday contained about 45 percent of a 167-square-mile (433-square-kilometer) fire that has destroyed more than 130 homes, while in Rocky Mountain ski country firefighters from 20 states were battling an 8-square-mile (22-square-kilometer) wildfire above the Roaring Fork Valley. Commanders said they hoped for one-third containment by late Sunday. Crews also had 50 percent containment of a southwestern Colorado fire that has blackened 85 square miles (220 square kilometers) north of Durango. Authorities said Saturday that afternoon storms could produce flash floods and mudslides in burn scars. And in central Colorado’s Park County, crews encircled a third of a spotty fire that forced the Buffalo Creek Wilderness to close. A stretch of busy U.S. Highway 285 between Fairplay and Antero Junction reopened Saturday. Associated Press writers Paul Davenport in Phoenix, Jim Anderson in Denver and freelance photographer Noah Berger in Goleta contributed to this report.
UPDATE 6 (2018-3-15): Planet Labs (@planetlabs) has posted some March 2018 imagery of construction of the Kalma Coastal Tourist Area construction site. There appear to be two staging areas for the construction site where workers live and supplies are stored. Here are close-ups of the two large staging areas circled in yellow in the image above: I overlaid recent Planet images onto Google Earth and outlined the building and facility construction site. The coastal resort is taking place in the area outlined in yellow below: Here are a couple of Planet images of the construction site: I believe this project is supposed to be completed in about a year, so it will be worthwhile to check in on it periodically with Planet images to see how the project is developing. UPDATE 5 (2018-2-2): The web page DPRK Today conducted an interview with a North Korean official about the Kalma project. NK News offers a good English-language article about the interview here. UPDATE 4 (2018-2-1): The Pyongyang Times offers information on the Kalma tourist area (like construction is expected to be completed in one year): The development of the Wonsan-Kalma coastal tourist zone is a priority project in the DPRK this year. Seaside resorts are tourist destinations that are found by the coast. The most suitable places for them are those with conditions favourable for such seaside tourist activities as swimming, sunbathing, angling, yachting, boating, motorboating, surfing and scuba diving in terms of the percentage and duration of sunshine, number of days with average temperature of 18-20℃ and with no or weak wind and the condition of seashore. Especially those with sandy beaches are so suitable for coastal tourism that many countries develop such areas into seaside resorts. Currently, such resorts hold a significant proportion of the world-class natural tourist destinations and most of summer vacationers tour the seaside. In the DPRK, many renowned seaside scenic attractions, including Songdowon and Lake Sijung of Kangwon Province, Majon of South Hamgyong Province and Ryongsupho of South Hwanghae Province, turned into coastal tourist centres. The Wonsan-Kalma area in Kangwon Province is also a very promising seaside resort. The Kalma peninsula in the southern part of the Wonsan Bay is an attached island which was formed by the wave-driven accumulation of granitic sand from the Namdae River. The northern part of the peninsula which stands long from south to north consists in gently rolling hills and the coastline is mostly straight and smooth. To the north lies the Hodo peninsula which stretches out from the opposite direction and in between there are Sin, Tae and other islets, serving as a natural breakwater that protects the port of Wonsan. There is a scenic attraction called Myongsasipri which means a famous sand beach stretching for 4 kilometres in the Kalma peninsula. A goldenrain tree rare to be found in the eastern coastal areas of the country stands at the entrance to the beach which is dotted with sweet briars. The red flowers in full bloom along the seaside surrounded by tall pines and clear blue waves of the East Sea form a harmonious whole to present a spectacular beauty. The construction of the seaside resort in the Wonsan-Kalma area with Kalma airport will help satisfy the demands of local and foreign tourists and provide an ideal place for stopover between different tourist destinations and Wonsan-Mt Kumgang International Tourist Zone. At present, preparations are being pushed ahead to complete as early as possible the Wonsan-Kalma project which will mark a turning point in raising the country’s tourism to the world level. UPDATE 3 (2018-1-31): The Daily NK reports that construction on the Kalma tourist zone has started, and it looks like they are right. According to a recent article: The North Korean authorities are mobilizing ordinary citizens and military conscripts alike in a push to accelerate construction of the “Wonsan Kalma Shore Tourist Zone” situated on the country’s east coast. Sources inside North Korea report that the authorities have conveyed their intentions to complete the project before the July 27 “Victory Day” holiday, which is referred to as National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day in South Korea. The beach resort project, along with Kalma Airport and the Masik Pass Ski Resort, all appear to be part of a larger plan by Kim Jong Un to address economic difficulties by generating more tourism revenue. He made this clear in his 2018 New Year’s address, saying, “This year, service personnel and residents should join efforts to complete the construction of the Wonsan-Kalma coastal tourist area in the shortest period of time.” “The authorities have mobilized 120,000 military members and 20,000 ordinary citizens for the Wonsan construction project,” a source in China close to North Korean affirms told Daily NK on January 28. “People are worried over implications of another ‘speed battle’ (intense construction mobilization) after Kim Jong Un’s order to complete the project by July 27.” If North Korea was engaging in this sort of work, we should see evidence of it–and we can via Planet Labs. Pictured below is a plot of land on the south end of the Kalma Airport runway. On the top is the Google Earth image dated 2017-5-19. On the bottom is the Planet Labs image dated 2018-1-31: The bottom photo clearly shows a large compound of temporary housing for construction workers. This kind of facility can be seen at all of North Korea’s large scale construction projects. The coordinates are 39.144608°, 127.503932° for those that are interested. It is still difficult to see any significant construction taking place on the northern end of the peninsula. Planet imagery in this case is rather limited, but it also appears the construction project itself is rather recent. In the Planet image below, dated 2018-1-12, we can see just how much worker housing has been constructed in just the last two weeks. (Note: Planet Labs created a .gif of the construction site. You can see it on Twitter here.) If the Daily NK is correct, and this is the “Wonsan Kalma Shore Tourist Zone,” and not part of the “Wonsan-Mt. Kumgang Tourist Zone,” then this indicates that plans for the area are still changing. This will be an interesting area to watch. Here are previous posts I have done on the Kalma Peninsula and Wonsan-Mt. Kumgang International Tourist Zone. Here is a relevant article I wrote for NK News back in 2013. UPDATE 2 (2018-1-31): KCNA releases some propaganda posters for the Kalma project: These posters give the impression that this project as ambitious as any of the major construction projects they have done in Pyongyang (Mansudae parts 1 and 2, Unha Scientist Street, Satellite Scientist Street, Mirae Scientist Street and Ryomyong Scientist Street). I previously posted about Part 2 of the Satellite Scientists Street, but it looks that that project will take a back seat to this one. The previously announced (2015) “Kalma Street” project appears to have stalled in 2017, and this new tourist zone is apparently unrelated. It is unclear if the Kalma Street project will be completed or if it has been scrapped. UPDATE 1 (2018-1-25): KCNA announces more information on the Wonsan-Kalma Coastal Tourist Area: A tourist resort is to be built in the Wonsan-Kalma coastal area in Kangwon Province, the DPRK on a large scale. It faces the Hodo Peninsula to the north and Sin, Tae and other islets are located between them which serve as seawall of Wonsan Port. When the tourist area is built, it will satisfy the demand of domestic and foreign tourists and will be the most ideal place to link various tourist destinations to the Wonsan-Mt Kumgang international tourist zone. The official media hinted at this project a few days prior in a report on the Mubong Mubong Special Zone for International Tourism. This entry was posted on Wednesday, January 31st, 2018 at 2:33 pm and is filed under Construction, Economic Development Zones (2016), Google Earth, Special Economic Zones, Wonsan-Kalma Coastal Tourist Area. You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. Both comments and pings are currently closed.
“We’ve been putting in some very long days,” Montana Fish, Wildlife & Parks fisheries biologist David Schmetterling said on Thursday after getting off the river. “We’re trying to stay out of people’s way. We’d have preferred to do this when the water was colder and higher and there wasn’t any recreational conflict. But the EPA Denver office found some money and lab time to do the analysis, and I want to try and get it done this year.” In another sign of momentum toward getting answers about how contaminated the Smurfit-Stone Mill Superfund site is, EPA officials sent a letter to Missoula County on June 28 acknowledging the county’s requests for additional sampling. Although short on details, the letter pledged a further response in the next several weeks. “The EPA agreed that a thorough evaluation of the site conditions and risks is required prior to making a decision for appropriate cleanup,” Vranka wrote. “The EPA agrees that a protective cleanup and redevelopment to promote beneficial reuse of the site are top priorities for Superfund.” While local officials have been worried for decades about possible heavy metal and industrial chemical contamination at the site, this spring’s long flood season added fresh incidents to their list. The 3,200-acre millsite included more than 900 acres of cooling ponds separated from the Clark Fork by an earthen berm. In May, tea-colored water could be seen leaking from the pond area into the river, while groundwater “boils” erupted from the dirt inside the berm. Preliminary sampling showed elevated levels of heavy metal contamination in the discharge water from the pond area, Ross said. It did not show a change in trend for dioxins, furans and PCBs getting into the river, although those cancer-causing chemicals have been found in other parts of the industrial site. That’s what FWP biologists want to check with their fish sampling study. Schmetterling said his crews would collect about 20 rainbow trout each from eight sites above and below the mill property, including some fish from the Bitterroot River as a control population for comparison. Where possible, the crews will also capture northern pike for testing. The new study will build on a 2013 FWP analysis of fish downstream from the mill that found enough toxic buildup in the fish to warrant a consumption warning. However, that study only tested skinless filet meat from the fish, which anglers typically keep to eat. The new study will examine all parts of the fish.
Work has started on the Lower Se San 2 Dam, a 400-megawatt hydropower project whose vast reservoir will force thousands to move. For 37-year-old rice farmer Pa Tou, the future looks bleak. The relocation site set aside for them is wholly unsuitable, he complains. There is no irrigation, it is miles from the river and the ground is either rocky or covered with trees. And at this stage it has no schools, no health clinics, no pagodas and no roads. “Everyone here worries how we will make a living,” he says. Fish highways Scientists share Pa Tou's pessimism about the $800-million Lower Se San 2 Dam, but note that its effects will be felt far beyond Srekor. That is because the Se San River, which the dam will block, is a vital breeding ground for fish in the region. Dr Eric Baran, the senior research scientist at WorldFish, an NGO focused on food security, describes the Se San River as one of four “fish highways” in the Lower Mekong Basin. Along with the Sre Pok River and the Se Kong Rivers, both of which flow into the Se San, this collection of three tributaries is known as the 3S network and is where migratory fish breed. The fourth highway is the Mekong, into which the 3S network empties. The Lower Se San 2 Dam, which will be built downstream of the confluence of the Sre Pok and Se San rivers, will completely block two of these fish highways. By the time its 8-kilometre-long wall is finished, only the Mekong and the Se Kong will remain open to the 40 percent of the fish in the Mekong Basin that are migratory. Unable to breed, the replacement generations of fish will simply not be born, says Baran. He estimates that the Lower Se San 2 Dam will cut the annual fish catch of the entire Mekong Basin by 9.3 percent. “So it's 9.3 percent of 2.1 million tons – which is a gigantic amount,” Baran says. That amount of lost catch – around 200,000 tons per year – is more than Australia's annual marine catch. Regional effects The Lower Mekong Basin is home to tens of millions of people, many of them poor. For Cambodia, whose per capita freshwater fish consumption is higher than any other nation, hydropower dams will affect food security. “People have become very reliant on [fish, which are] also by far the first source of animal protein,” says Baran. “[Fish] represent 81 percent of the animal protein consumption in the country.” A paper published last year in the respected US journal The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences warned that the region's scramble for hydropower would have a “catastrophic” impact on the Mekong Basin, which is the world's richest freshwater fishery. The researchers calculated that plans to build more than 70 dams in the Mekong River Basin would be disastrous. Baran, who co-wrote the paper, says the Lower Se San 2 Dam will be the most damaging of any tributary dam. Global concern The research has spurred global concern. Last year, the then US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, urged Mekong nations not to make the same mistakes regarding dams as the US had made. International Rivers, a campaigning NGO, predicts the Lower Se San 2 Dam “will have a costly, catastrophic impact on the Mekong River's fisheries and biodiversity”. “All of the research that has come out has proven that the impact of the dam will be much greater than the benefits of the project,” says Ame Trandem, the Southeast Asia program director for International Rivers. Trandem says there will be agricultural losses too, with the Lower Se San 2 Dam calculated to block up to 8 percent of sediment flows on the Mekong. These nutrients are vital for fertilizing the fields of countless thousands of subsistence farmers. “So this is something that will affect all of the rice fields in Cambodia going down to the Mekong Delta in Vietnam as well,” she says. The expected effects of the Lower Se San 2 Dam are so severe that in late 2011 a group of 29 international scientists with expertise in fisheries wrote to Cambodia's Prime Minister Hun Sen warning that the dam would harm hundreds of thousands of people in Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand and Laos. The letter stressed their “sincere concern” that this dam would cause “increased poverty and malnutrition over a wide area in Cambodia, thus working against the Cambodian government's development plans for the nation, including its efforts to achieve UN Millennium Development Goals”. The scientists reportedly did not receive a response. Government silence Cambodia and its neighbors certainly need more power: three-quarters of Cambodians lack access to the grid, and power cuts in cities and towns are common. Although hydropower is a source of clean electricity, its detractors say the social and environmental costs of large projects like this one outweigh the benefits. They say small schemes such as solar, wind and micro-hydro dams that generate energy locally are better because they cost less, lose less electricity in transmission and have fewer negative effects. Yet, Cambodia has only a handful of such projects and they do not appear to be part of the government's energy policy. The Minister of Industry, Mines and Energy, Suy Sem, declined to be interviewed for this article, as did another senior ministry official. Questions emailed to the minister were not answered. But media reports consistently show the government favors projects like hydropower dams and coal-fired power stations. More are likely to go ahead. On May 9, the Cambodia Daily newspaper said two more planned dams on the 3S network had been deemed economically feasible, moving them a step closer to approval. One would be a 370MW dam on the Se San River; the other a 100MW dam on the Sre Pok River. The first would flood 40 villages alone. Meanwhile the Cambodian government has plans to build a hydropower dam on its stretch of the Se Kong River, which rises in Laos. Baran says that would block the region's third fish highway, leaving the Mekong mainstream as the sole route for migratory species, further harming fish stocks. The rush to hydropower risks inflicting profound and irreversible damage to many more people than the residents of Srekor village.
BEIRUT (AP) — World leaders called Thursday for an urgent cease-fire in Syria as government forces pounded the opposition-controlled eastern suburbs of the capital in a crushing campaign that has left hundreds of people dead in recent days. The U.N. Security Council heard a briefing from U.N. humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock on what he called “the humanitarian disaster unfolding before our eyes” in the rebel-held suburbs known as eastern Ghouta. Sweden and Kuwait were seeking a vote on a resolution ordering a 30-day cease-fire to allow relief agencies to deliver aid and evacuate the critically sick and wounded from besieged areas to receive medical care. But Russia’s U.N. ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, who called Thursday’s meeting, put forward last-minute amendments, saying the proposed resolution was “simply unrealistic.” Russia’s amendments would rule out an immediate cease-fire and instead demand that all parties “stop hostilities as soon as possible,” and “work for an immediate and unconditional de-escalation of violence” and 30-day “humanitarian pause.” The Russian proposal would also condemn the “relentless shelling” of Damascus from eastern Ghouta, and deplore “the ongoing attempts by terrorist groups to retake areas and attack civilians and civilian objects.” Several council diplomats who examined the draft, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said it was unacceptable. Nebenzia accused global media outlets of a massive disinformation campaign that ignored what he claimed were thousands of fighters, including al-Qaida-linked militants, that were shelling Damascus from eastern Ghouta and taking refuge in hospitals and schools. Council members said they needed to study the Russian proposals. “We will try and find a way forward that works for everyone,” Sweden’s U.N. Ambassador Olof Skoog told reporters, adding that a vote was likely on Friday. In eastern Ghouta, medical workers said they hadn’t been able to see their families for days as they worked round the clock at hospitals that have been moved underground to protect them from bombing, while their spouses and children stay in shelters. “You can’t be above ground for even 15 minutes,” said a nurse in the town of Kafr Batna, who spoke on condition of anonymity to protect the identity of family members still living in government areas. “At any moment I expect to have to treat my relatives for wounds,” he said. In the background the deep boom of a bomb could be heard exploding as the nurse spoke by Skype to The Associated Press. He said a barrel bomb had fallen less than half a kilometer (one-third mile) away. A spokesman for the Syrian Civil Defense search-and-rescue group said eastern Ghouta was being targeted for “extermination.” “This is a war against civilians,” said the spokesman, Siraj Mahmoud. “The civil defense is being targeted as they rescue women and children, evacuate civilians from targeted areas and put out fires.” Four rescue workers of the organization, also known as the White Helmets, have been killed since Sunday, Mahmoud said. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said 400 people, including dozens of children, have been killed since Sunday. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said al-Qaida-linked fighters were using civilians as human shields in the rebel-held suburbs outside Damascus. Al-Qaida’s Syria affiliate is not known to have many fighters in eastern Ghouta, and government forces on Thursday concentrated their fire on hospitals, ambulances, apartment blocks and other civilian sites, according to rescue workers, war monitors, human rights groups, and several videos emerging from the war-scarred region. U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an immediate suspension of “all war activities” in the area where he said people were living “in hell on Earth.” The Russian military is supporting Assad’s forces in the assault on eastern Ghouta, as it did in the 2016 campaign that drove the rebels from the enclaves they controlled in Syria’s largest city, Aleppo. Then, as now, it cited the presence of al-Qaida-linked groups as grounds for the sweeping operation. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on the European Union to step up pressure on Russia and Iran to end the violence in Syria. “The regime is not fighting against terrorists, but against its own people, killing children, destroying hospitals, and this is a massacre to be condemned,” she told Parliament. Besides President Bashar Assad, Merkel said “Iran and Russia have a particular responsibility” as they are both supporting the government forces. “We need to do everything in our power to put an end to this massacre,” she said. Lavrov said in remarks in Belgrade, Serbia, that an al-Qaida-linked group blocked a proposal by Russia’s military earlier this week to allow opposition fighters to leave eastern Ghouta in exchange for ending the government’s offensive. That contradicted an assertion by one of the largest rebel groups in eastern Ghouta, which told the AP that Russia refused to allow al-Qaida fighters to leave in November, and accused Moscow of wanting to keep the fighters there as a pretext for a comprehensive military campaign. Russian news reports said Moscow has beefed up its forces in Syria with additional warplanes, including its latest fighter jets. The Kremlin wouldn’t comment on the reports, referring questions to the military, which has remained mum about the deployment. Russia has rejected allegations it was responsible for the mounting civilian casualties in eastern Ghouta, but anger has grown along with the death toll. On Thursday, scores of protesters, including prominent Syrian opposition figures, gathered outside the Russian Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, chanting, “Russia get out of Syria” and “Iran get out of Syria” in Turkish and Arabic. Syria’s conflict, which has killed more than 400,000 people and displaced millions in the past seven years, has escalated in recent weeks as Assad and his allies push to retake remaining rebel-held areas in the country. Turkey has also opened a new front against Syrian Kurdish fighters in the north, launching an air and ground offensive on the Kurdish-controlled enclave of Afrin last month. Hundreds of pro-Syrian government fighters entered Afrin this week as part of an agreement with the Kurdish militia, known as the YPG, to bolster resistance to Turkey’s assault. Hundreds of people gathered in Afrin’s main square Thursday, celebrating the pro-government fighters’ arrival. TV footage showed fighters in camouflage uniforms standing among scores of men who gathered in the square waving posters of Assad. Turkish warplanes could be heard flying overhead, sending some fleeing the area. The pro-government daily Al-Watan said some 500 pro-government fighters have entered Afrin since Tuesday, taking positions along the region’s borders. A YPG spokesman, Nuri Mehmud, said the pro-government fighters brought in armored vehicles but said more was needed to withstand Turkey’s military campaign. “There needs to be a no-fly zone,” Mehmud said. “The Syrian army must protect Syrian lands.” Turkey launched the operation to uproot the YPG from Afrin on Jan. 20, saying the group is linked to a Kurdish insurgency inside its own borders. Associated Press writers Zeina Karam and Bassem Mroue in Beirut, Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations, Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow and Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, contributed to this report.
By Agence France-Presse The change is drastic: around the region of Heroshah, previously arid hills are now covered with forest as far as the horizon. In northwestern Pakistan, hundreds of millions of trees have been planted to fight deforestation. In 2015 and 2016 some 16,000 laborers planted more than 900,000 fast-growing eucalyptus trees at regular, geometric intervals in Heroshah — and the titanic task is just a fraction of the effort across the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. “Before it was completely burnt land. Now they have green gold in their hands,” commented forest manager Pervaiz Manan as he displayed pictures of the site previously, when only sparse blades of tall grass interrupted the monotonous landscape. The new trees will reinvigorate the area’s scenic beauty, act as a control against erosion, help mitigate climate change, decrease the chances of floods and increase the chances of precipitation, says Manan, who oversaw the revegetation of Heroshah. Residents also see them as an economic boost — which, officials hope, will deter them from cutting the new growth down to use as firewood in a region where electricity can be sparse. “Now our hills are useful, our fields became useful,” says driver Ajbir Shah. “It is a huge benefit for us.” Further north, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Swat, many of the high valleys were denuded by the Pakistani Taliban during their reign from 2006 to 2009. Now they are covered in pine saplings. “You can’t walk without stepping on a seedling,” smiles Yusufa Khan, another forest department worker. The Heroshah and Swat plantations are part of the “Billion Tree Tsunami”, a provincial government programme that has seen a total of 300 million trees of 42 different species planted across Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. A further 150 million plants were given to landowners, while strict forest regeneration measures have allowed the regrowth of 730 million trees — roughly 1.2 billion new trees in total, the programme’s management says. ‘Transparency’ Kamran Hussain, a manager of the Pakistani branch of the World Wildlife Fund, who conducted an independent audit of the project, says their figures showed slightly less — but still above target at 1.06 billion trees. “We are 100 percent confident that the figure about the billion trees is correct,” he told AFP, highlighting the transparency of the process. “Everything is online. Everyone has access to this information.” The programme has been praised by the head of the Swiss-based International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), a green NGO, which called it a “true conservation success story”. Initially mocked for what critics said were unrealistic objectives, it is a welcome change to the situation elsewhere in the country. Pakistani authorities say just 5.2 percent of the country is covered by forest, against the 12 percent recommended by the United Nations. Just one big tree remains in the poverty-stricken village of Garhi Bit in the southern province of Sindh, shading its small mosque. It has stood there for a century, locals say. “Before, there were big trees, many kinds of them,” says Dad Mohammad, a 43-year-old farmer. “But they started to dry because of the lack of water, so we cut them,” he says, pointing to hundreds of meters of cultivated land where previously there stood a forest. ‘Disaster’ More than 60 percent of the forests lining Sindh’s riverbanks have disappeared in the last 60 years, mainly due to river depletion and massive logging during the 1980s, says Riaz Ahmed Wagan, of the provincial forest department. “It is a disaster,” he says, adding that forestry remains the lowest priority on the agenda of the provincial governments. The Billion Tree Tsunami, which cost the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government $169 million, started in November 2014. Officials say they are still implementing maintenance safeguards such as fire protection, with the project due to be completed in June 2020. In early 2017, the federal government announced its own Green Pakistan Project, which aims to plant 100 million trees in five years across the country. It ranges from “legislative reforms” to “wildlife protection”, according to its leader Ibrahim Khan, who works under the authority of the ministry for climate change. More than a quarter of the work was done by the end of April this year, he says. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is ruled by Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, the political party headed by former cricketer Imran Khan, which is the main challenger to the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) as the country heads into a general election next month. Khan has vowed to make the environment an election issue and to plant a total of 10 billion trees across the country. “Every child in Pakistan should be aware of the environmental issue which, until now, has been a non-issue,” he told AFP. But it is yet to be seen whether his ambitions will translate into votes. Pakistani environmental lawyer and activist Ahmad Rafay Allam says that in a country where the electorate is often swayed by infrastructure projects rather than the environment, he has doubts. “It would be a first,” he told AFP. Tags: Billion Tree Tsunami, environment, Green Gold, Heroshah, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, trees
Apache Dodson has lived in the working-class waterfront city of Vallejo, California, in the San Francisco Bay Area almost all her life. The 83-year-old takes pride in her two-story home on the city’s south side, which was built more than 100 years ago. But change may be in the cards for Dodson and for the rest of her neighborhood. Orcem, an American subsidiary of Irish cement manufacturer Ecocem, has been eyeing the old Sperry Flour Mill site on the mouth of the Napa River to build a cement grinding facility, just blocks from Dodson’s home. While some residents and city officials are in favor of the cement project, opponents say the pollution from the factory, and from heavy truck traffic it would generate, would pose severe risks to the health of residents, especially the predominantly black community close to the facility. But others are wary. “Vallejo suffers from low self-esteem,” says Diana Lang, a real estate agent and Vallejo resident of more than 17 years. “There’s some people who look back on the glory days of industry and see that this could replicate that.” Lang says the environmental consequences of the facility would outweigh the benefit of its few jobs. According to the official project description , the cement facility would operate around the clock, with 189 trucks making trips to and from the site once it’s working at full capacity. The site is within 300 feet of residential zones, and about a quarter mile from Grace Patterson Elementary School. But to others, the project is an inappropriate use of prime waterfront property. Lang, who has worked in real estate for 13 years, says the fact that homes are located downwind from the site should disqualify it from being used for heavy industry. “Besides that, it would be a really unattractive thing to have on the waterfront as people come in and out via ferry,” she says. Orcem’s website says it would produce what it calls “ green cement. ” It would ship iron slag — a byproduct of steel production — from Asia, grind it into a powder, and mix it with other materials to make cement. This type of cement requires less energy and emits far fewer greenhouse gases during production than traditional Portland cement, which is manufactured by heating limestone at high temperatures.
